                                                2025 - 2026 DISTRICT BUDGET
                                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY........................................................................................................1
ORGANIZATIONAL SECTION............................................................................................35
FINANCIAL SECTION.........................................................................................................72
INFORMATIONAL SECTION ...................................................................................... ......103
                                                       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
                                          Executive Summary...............................1


                                                  ORGANIZATIONAL SECTION



Superintendent.........................................................36    Budget Administration and
Board of Managers..................................................37               Management Process.............................. ..57
Houston ISD Organization Chart .......................... ..39               Budgetary Control and
District Structure......................................................40          Accounting Basis .................................... ...65
HISD Maps ........................................................... ..41
HISD 2025-2026 Action Plan ................................ ..44
New Education System (NES) ................................50
Non- NES Campuses ........................................... ..53




                                                         FINANCIAL SECTION


Governmental Fund Types .................................. ...73
General Fund....................................................... ...80
Nutrition Services Fund ....................................... ...87
Debt Service Fund ............................................... ...91
Capital Program................................................... ...93




     2025-2026 Adopted Budget                                                                                                                     i
                                                   INFORMATIONAL SECTION
    Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions...............104                 Per Pupil Expenditures ........................................116
    Proposed Tax Revenue Calculation .....................106             Performance Results: Distict Administration........120
    Distribution of Property Tax Rate ..........................108       Harris County Tax Rates......................................121
    Property Tax Levies and Collections ....................109           Teacher Salaries ..................................................122
    Analysis of Tax Burden for a Typical                                  Administrative Cost Ratios ..................................123
             Homeowner .............................................110   FTE -General Funds and all Funds. ....................125
    Total Debt Outstanding .........................................111   Performance Results: Student Achievement .......126
    Principal Property Taxpayers Current Year and                         Houston Economic/Demographic Conditions ......132
             Nine Years Ago.... ....................................112   School Pages School List ....................................136
    Enrollment Projections......................................... 113   Contracted Schools or Programs.........................142
    State Education Funding Formula........................ 114           Department Pages...............................................144



    Glossary of Terms and Acronyms ........................183




                  CONTACTING THE H.I.S.D. OFFICE OF BUDGETING AND FINANCIAL PLANNING

    H.I.S.D. Web Page: https://www.houstonisd.org/

    H.I.S.D. Oﬃce of Budgeting and Financial Planning Web Page:
    https://www.houstonisd.org/our-district/budget-ﬁnancial-planning

    Contact by email: budget@HoustonISD.org

    Write H.I.S.D. Oﬃce of Budgeting and Financial Planning:

              Houston Independent School District
              Oﬃce of Budgeting and Financial Planning
              4400 West 18th Street
              Houston, Texas 77092

    Contact by Phone:

    Main Line: 713-556-6565




2025-2026 Adopted Budget                                                                                                                  ii
2025-2026 Adopted Budget   iii
2025-2026 Adopted Budget   iv
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   1
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   2
Introduction

The budget document and the year-end Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) are the primary vehicles
used to present the ﬁnancial plan and the results of operations of the district. This document, the 2025-2026
District Budget, comprises of four sections:

    •   Executive Summary
    •   Organizational Section
    •   Financial Section
    •   Informational Section

The information included in the budget document is structured to meet the requirements of the Meritorious Budget
Award (MBA) of the Association of School Business Oﬃcials International (ASBO). To receive this award, a school
entity must publish a budget document which is also a policy document, an operations guide, a ﬁnancial plan, and
a communications device. We believe our current budget conforms to the requirements of the program. We are
submitting this document to ASBO to determine its continued eligibility for this award. This award represents the
highest level of recognition in budgeting for school entities. Its attainment represents a signiﬁcant accomplishment
by a school entity and its management. The award is conferred after a comprehensive review by a panel of
independent budget professionals. Using extensive criteria, the reviewers not only evaluate the eﬀectiveness
of the budget in meeting the program’s criteria, but it also provide commentary and feedback to the submitting
entity as a basis for improving the process and presentation of their district’s ﬁnancial and operational plan.

Our most important concern in the presentation of the budget data, however, is to improve the quality of information
provided to our community about the ﬁnancial plan for the district’s educational programs and services for the
ﬁscal year. The material in the budget document also includes information that has been suggested by the
Board of Managers, patrons, community members, staﬀ, and those who review the document for the awards
previously mentioned.

Both human and ﬁnancial resources are allocated in the budget to achieve the goals of the district. The adopted
budget reﬂects the allocation of revenues and expenditures to support educational programs and services deﬁned
by the district’s purpose, goals, strategic intent, and core values. It represents the vision of district leadership
and the hearts and minds of teachers and staﬀ articulated through ﬁnancial and operating policies. The budget
is a good balance of choices representing the responsive equilibrium between the educational needs of students
and the ability of the community and the state to provide the necessary ﬁnancial support to serve them.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary                                                                         3
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   4
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   5
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   6
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   7
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   8
Budget Presentation
The budget process is comprised of seven phases:
   • Planning
   • Preparation and Submission
   • Review and Coordination
   • Adoption
   • Implementation
   • Monitoring
   • Evaluation



                                         Budget Development




The Budget Development Model

The Budget Process is conceptually divided into a seven-step process: planning, preparation and submission,
review and coordination, adoption, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation. The process is congruent with
the overall mission of the organization and is aimed at fulﬁlling the district’s stated goals and objectives. The
budget process exists in the context of a struggle to balance the needs of students and the community with
the limited resources available from local, state, and federal sources. The ﬁnal adopted budget is a reﬂection
of the best decisions and choices of hundreds of people in the schools, the administrative oﬃces, and the
community. It is often a painstaking balance of policy decisions and choices among competing priorities.

Planning

The planning stage of the budget process begins with the adoption of the prior year’s budget. At this point,
team members communicate ideas and thoughts regarding the previous year’s process and plan to make the
necessary improvements and adjustments to the process for the next budget cycle. Also, early into the year,
the budget calendar of milestones for important activities and decisions is developed and disseminated to



2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary                                                                           9
budget participants. Concurrently, senior members of the organization are meeting to discuss strategic planning issue
such as goals and initiatives for the coming year, as well as challenges and opportunities facing the district. Finally,
fundamental projections and assumptions crucial to the budgeting process such as pupil enrollment projections,
changes in the tax base, and changes in funding levels received are being conducted and examined exhaustively.

The district currently uses a mix of budgetary approaches: line item, program budgeting, and the weighted per
student allocation multiplied it by the campus projected enrollment and multiplied by average daily attendance
(ADA).These approaches provide campuses a standard allocation based on projected enrollments or historical
expenditures and uses a competitive ranking process for new or non-allocated programs. With this mixed approach,
the Superintendent’s cabinet is also charged with developing and prioritizing non-allocated budgetary requests for
submission for review.

Preparation and Submission

Budget preparation is conducted at the campus level primarily by the principal and members of the Shared Decision-
Making Committee (SDMC). The development of campus-level budgets follow the budget preparation guidelines
issued by the Superintendent. While the revenue side of the district budget is prepared by district administrators,
campus-level budgets become the basis for the expenditure side of the district budget as that information ﬁlters up
through the various levels of review, including campus staﬀ members and the SDMC. Additional expenditures for
costs such as debt service and interest are added when the district-wide preliminary budget is compiled.
The budgeting of campus allocations, exclusive of legal mandates, is at the discretion of each campus under the
district’s site-based decision-making model. As such, campus budgeting begins with the identiﬁcation of a school’s
goals and objectives by the school’s resource planning group or equivalent (e.g., the School Improvement Team)
as a ﬁrst step in the campus budget development process. These goals and objectives should be driven by the
educational needs of the campus (i.e., instruction and curriculum). In addition, the school’s goals and objectives
should be developed in accordance with district-wide and long-term educational goals.
Once consensus is reached on these goals and objectives, current operations should be evaluated as to their
eﬀectiveness in achieving them. New programs may need to be developed for the current year’s operations to attain
goals and objectives that are not addressed by a school’s current programs. Programs should then be prioritized
as to their eﬀectiveness in attaining the developed goals and objectives.
Budget submission is completed electronically for schools. Budget units receive budget development packages
that allow them to develop their budgets electronically and submit them through the intranet. An overall summary
request is generated along with detailed line-by-line budget items. During the submission process, there is frequent
review and consultation process with Budgeting and Financial Planning staﬀ members.
The preparation of other budgets occurs simultaneously with the development of the General Fund budget. Debt
Service Funds are budgeted by the Controller’s Oﬃce and Budgeting and Financial Planning. Nutrition Services
Funds budgets are created by the HISD Nutrition Services department and reviewed by the Controller’s Oﬃce.

Budget Review and Coordination

The Superintendent’s cabinet reviews budget increase requests and recommends overall prioritization of programs
and activities. Input from the various participants is used to determine the appropriateness of the submitted budgets.
This process takes months of planning and collaboration. The timeline on the next page illustrates the six month
process.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary                                                                         10
Criteria for reviewing budget proposals, especially increase requests, include the degree of alignment with
districtwide goals and objectives, priority status compared with other proposals, use of district resources for
eﬃciency and eﬀectiveness, the unit’s track record for operational performance, and the likelihood of success
for particular initiatives and programs.

Final review and coordination of the annual budget is conducted in public workshops and hearings with members
of the community and the school board of managers.

Budget Adoption

The compiled budgets for the district are submitted to the Superintendent for review before they are formally
presented to the school board of managers in early June as a recommended budget. The school board of
managers analyzes the documentation and conducts public hearings and workshops to get input from the
community on district spending plans. After ﬁnal revision and amendment, the board formally adopts the budget
in June. Budgets are approved on a fund-by-fund basis. The district can make amendments to the budget at
any time during the year; however, amendments changing functional expenditure categories or revenue object
accounts (as deﬁned in the Texas Education Agency’s Financial Accountability System Resource Guide) must
be approved by the Board of Managers.

Budget Implementation

Implementation of the budget involves the procedural and technical processes that must occur for the proper
expenditure and recording of the various funds in the budget.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary                                                                    11
Personnel Controls and Approvals

The management of positions in HISD is an integral part of the budgeting process since approximately 79.4
percent of the general fund budget is comprised of salary and beneﬁt costs. Schools have some ﬂexibility with
respect to opening, closing, and/or changing positions within a balanced budget. New central oﬃce positions
are normally requested as part of the recommended budget for the new year. New school positions must be
approved by the principal or Area Superintendent.

Encumbrance Control

Encumbrance accounting, the system under which purchase orders, contracts, and other commitments for the
expenditure of funds are recognized in the accounting system in order to reserve the portion of the applicable
appropriation, is employed in the Governmental Fund types. Encumbrances that have not been liquidated are
reported as reservations of fund balance since they do not constitute expenditures or liabilities. District policy
requires that such amounts be re-appropriated in the following ﬁscal year.

Auditing

Tests are conducted to determine the adequacy of the internal control structure of the district and the eﬀectiveness
and eﬃciency of expenditures as well as for compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Examples of the
types of audits performed include Internal Control Reviews, Expenditure and Revenue Audits, Account Balance
Audits, Contract Audits, Systems Documentation, and Compliance Reviews.

Puchasing

Purchasing procedures and guidelines are developed and monitored to ensure purchasing and contracting
compliance with all applicable statutory and legal requirements, Board of Education policy, good purchasing
practice, and adherence to ethical standards. Also, the district seeks to improve participation by historically
under utilized businesses. Speciﬁc policies and procedures related to procurement can be found in the Finance
Procedures Manual, section 1300.

Budget Account Transfers

Transfer of campus discretionary funds requires principal approval for schools, and direct report or department
head approval for central oﬃce budgets. The district restricts transfers between funds (or business areas) and
within Special Revenue funds based on each particular grant’s requirements. Transfers can be made between
functions within the same fund (business area), and transfers can be made between objects within the same
fund or business area. For more detailed information, consult the Finance Procedures Manual, section 500
located on the district’s website.

Budget Amendments

Budget amendments are handled in basically the same fashion as a budget transfer request. Approval is required
by the principal or Area Superintendent for schools and by the appropriate direct report or department head for
central oﬃce amendments.

Reporting System

HISD implemented the SAP (Systems Applications and Products) ﬁnance and accounting operation and control
system in 1998, to further the automation of ﬁnancial transactions, reduce transaction processing time and costs,
and provide more timely, accurate information regarding those transactions. The information provided by the
SAP system is designed to assist administrators in monitoring the ﬁnancial condition of the district and evaluating
the ﬁscal performance of the various budget units. Examples of information provided by SAP, include reports
detailing the original annual budget allocations for schools and departments, the available budgets of all units,
dynamic comparison of allocations to actual expenditures, purchase orders processed, but not yet received,
records of ﬁxed assets and inventories and budget transfers.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary                                                                        12
Budget Monitoring
As budgeted funds are expended, the budget oﬃce monitors the budget on a monthly basis with a variance
report designed to track projected expenses versus one time expenses and project the budget’s end of year
available balance. While each level of the district’s organization is responsible for monitoring those budget items
for which it is responsible. the budget and ﬁnance team assist with projecting over expenditures and contribute
to ﬁscally responsible spending. Principals and Department leaders can monitor budgetary performance on a
transaction-by-transaction basis through access to the district’s enterprise resource planning software, SAP.
The HISD budget must also be submitted to TEA via the Public Education Information Management System
(PEIMS) transmission process. TEA monitors for compliance at the district level only. This monitoring is a legal
requirement to ensure mandatory expenditure levels in certain areas.

Evaluation
The last step in the budget process is evaluation, where performance data gathered in the monitoring phase are
assembled and evaluated to determine individual units as well as overall -district performance for the ﬁscal year.
This is usually accomplished in the summer as the budget for the next ﬁscal year is being developed. As the
strategic management and planning methodiology becomes more ingrained into HISD’s culture, the performance
data gathered will become more detailed and better aimed at the programs and process that are most signiﬁcant
to the overall operational performance and will allow a better view of organizational performance over time.

The results of the evaluation phase in the budgeting cycle, output directly into the planning phase for the next
budget year. The three main areas of evaluation include schools, programs, and stakeholder satisfaction.
Schools and programs are evaluated for student achievement using such tools and measures as STAAR (State
of Texas Assessments of Academic Readiness) tests, the Stanford 10 norm-referenced exams, attendance rates,
drop-out and graduation rates, SAT and ACT test results, etc. Stakeholder satisfaction is measured through
questionnaires, survey instruments, and indirect measures such as voter approval rates of bond elections, etc.
Budgetary performance evaluation includes measures such as budget-to-actual or budget-to-projected actual
comparisons of revenue, expenditures, cash ﬂow, fund balance, and staﬃng levels.

Periodic evaluation or performance reports are issued to inform both district oﬃcials and the public of campus
and district performance. The annual budget document will continue to serve as a primary vehicle for delivering
evaluation results of the previous ﬁscal year and illustrating the underlying reasons for new budget allocations

Financial Overview

Prior Year Actuals

Prior year actual revenues and expenditures are reﬂected in the charts below.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary                                                                       13
 Over the course of the year, the district revised its budget several times. Signiﬁcant budget adjustments include:
 • Local funding is expected to increase by $2.6 million,
 • Increase of $26.7 million in property tax revenue.
 • Foundation School Program gain of $182.6 million
 • Federal sources forecast a net increase of $560,000
 • Decrease of $17 million in interest earnings and $7 million in other governmental sources

 General Fund Revenues
 The adopted budget reﬂects the allocation of revenues and appropriations to support educational programs
 and services deﬁned by the district’s purpose, goals, strategic intent, and core values. Projected revenues
 for the 2025-2026 General Fund are $2,127,033,202 which is a 7.1 percent increase over the ﬁnal 2024-2025
 budgeted revenues. Revenues for the General Fund and other ﬁnancing sources are primarily generated
 through local property taxes and state aid, but include other sources. A description of the methodology for
 calculating state formula revenue in detail is included in the Informational Section of this document.


 General Fund Revenue Assumptions
 The 2025-2026 state revenue projections are based on an estimated average daily attendance (ADA) of
 151,666 pupils, or weighted average daily attendance (WADA) of 223,312.
 Property tax revenue is the district’s largest revenue source in the amount of $1,563,545,630 comprising of
 77% of all budgeted revenues. HISD is projecting an increase in local funding from the 2024-2025 original
 budgeted property tax levy of $26.7 million, an increase of state funding of $190.2 million, and an increase
 $560 thousand in federal sources, for a net increase of $193.4 million in revenues
 The table below provides a four year historical of Genereal fund revenue in each of the revenue sources.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary                                                                         14
2025-2026 Tax Rate

The 2025-2026 Adopted Budget is based on a $0.7116 Maintenance & Operation (M&O) tax rate and a $0.1667
Interest & Sinking (I&S) tax rate for a total tax rate of $0.8783, which has increased by 1.14% from year.

Below is a chart of the district’s roll values for the past 10 years:




The revenue projections used for 2025-2026 are based oﬀ the certiﬁed estimated roll value that the district
receives as of June 30th each ﬁscal year. The district works with the Harris County Appraisal District (HCAD) early
in the year, usually around February, to determine a starting point for tax revenue projections. These projections
are used to build early estimates of the district’s budget resources and help with the planning and ranking of
programs in the upcoming years. The district has traditionally taken a conservative approach in early revenue
and projections and in the past has been able to fund projects on a ranked planning list.

In the near-term, the district revenue projections are impacted by growth in property values, changes in student
enrollment, and current state statute. District revenues are driven by local property taxes, and roll values are used
to estimate revenues before the budget is adopted in June. Sudden declines in student population can impact the
district’s formula funding allotment, discussed in further detail in the Informational Section of this document, and
per-student allocations budgeted at the school-level. Student population is monitored daily during September of
each year, and the district responds immediately, preparing for allocation adjustments as necessary. The district
then settles-up with campuses after the state’s enrollment snapshot in October. The district’s long-term revenue
forecast is represented in more detail in the Informational Section of this document. This forecast makes several
assumptions, estimating the future property tax roll values will grow between three and ﬁve percent annually.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary                                                                         15
HISD Local Tax Rolls and Estimated Taxes on a Typical Home

HISD’s estimated assessed value for the 2025-2026 ﬁscal year, per the HCAD certiﬁed estimated roll in April
2025, was $241,143,766,896. Compared to the certiﬁed estimated value in April 2024 of 221,904,587,622, notes
an increase of 8 percent. These are not ﬁnal tax roll numbers; however, these values are used for original budget
projections. The 2025-2026 value used for the 2025-2026 Adopted Budget does not reﬂect the changes that
occur through the tax year or represent a ﬁnal roll value. For the typical homeowner, taxes to fund programs and
services for the 2025-2026 ﬁscal year will remain the same. The resulting decrease does not take into account
exemptions for homeowners over 65, disabled homeowners, or surviving spouses over age 55.

The $0.8783 tax rate adopted by the Board of Education for 2025-2026 has increased from the 2024-2025 tax
rate. The tax rate assumes an average taxable value of a Houston-area home of $291,605 in 2025-2026, and
taxes on the average home of $2,649.55 This average tax bill is calculated by taking the average market value,
provided by HCAD, less a homestead exemption of $140,000. Additional exemptions of $60,000 for homeowners
age 65 and older, or disabled plus an additional $5,000 for the local option.

The chart below illustrates the tax burden for the typical homeowner from 2017-2026.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary                                                                     16
Long Term Debt

A school district is authorized to issue bonds and levy taxes for the payment of bonds subject to voter approval
of a proposition submitted to the voters under Section 45.003(b)(1) of the Texas Education Code, which provides
a tax for the support of school district bonded indebtedness. Section 45.0031 of the Texas Education Code
essentially limits a school district’s maximum Interest & Sinking Fund (I&S) tax rate to $0.50 per $100 valuation,
equating to a debt limit of 7% of a district’s taxable assessed valuation. The district’s current I&S tax rate of
$0.16670 is well below the maximum $0.50 rate.

As of June 30, 2025, the District had net bonded debt outstanding of $1.35 billion. The District debt totals included
$0 million in Variable Rate Bonds outstanding at ﬁscal year-end. Based on the current assessed property value of
approximately $234B, the district has suﬃcient capacity to incur additional bonded debt for future years without
exceeding legal debt limits. The ratio of net general bonded debt to assessed valuation and the amount of bonded
debt per student are useful indicators of the District’s debt position. This data reﬂects a decrease in the ratio of
net bonded debt to assessed value to .58 percent, as compared to .74 percent last year.

The debt obligations of the District are rated ‘Aaa’ by Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) and ‘AAA’ by Standard
& Poor’s Global Ratings (“S&P”), a business unit of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC, by virtue of a
guarantee by the Texas Permanent School Fund Bond Guarantee Program. The outstanding unenhanced tax
supported debt of the District is rated ‘Aaa’ by Moody’s and ‘AA+’ by S&P. Rating information referenced is as
of the last rating reviews in June of 2025 for Moody’s and July of 2025 for S&P.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary                                                                         17
 General Fund Budget Distribution

 Below is a comparison of total General Fund expenditures, by object, for the ﬁscal years 203 through 2026.




 Below is a chart representing the 2025-2026 Adopted Budget as allocated by Chiefs within the HISD’s
 organizational structure.HISD’s organizational chart can be found in the Organizational Section of this document.
 Detail for each campus and department is located in the Informational Section.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary                                                                      18
2025-2026 Other District Fund Appropriations

HISD operates other additional governmental funds that require board approval:

The district adopted a Debt Service Fund budget of $389,749,309 that provides for principal and interest payments
for outstanding debt in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for governmental entities.

The adopted Nutrition Services Fund budget is $147,450,862 and reﬂects the ongoing activity of the nutrition
services program. Revenue to support the nutrition service program is primarily derived from National School
Breakfast and Lunch Program and state programs.

Below are charts representing the district’s total revenues and appropriations in its various funds.




2025-2026 Financial Schedules of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund
Balance

The following pages are the ﬁnancials schedules for board approved for governmental funds, general funds,
nutrition services, and debt services; featuring four years of historical ﬁnancial information, the current adopted
ﬁnancial data, and three years of forecasted ﬁnancials.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary                                                                       19
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   20
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   21
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   22
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   23
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   24
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   25
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   26
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   27
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   28
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   29
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   30
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   31
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   32
Informational Overview

In order to prepare the annual budget, the District develops projections for enrollment, student demographics,
property values, tax collection rates, state funding, and expenditure levels. This summary presents budgetary
highlights to provide a general overview of the basis of our assumptions and projections for the 2025-2026 ﬁscal year.

Demographics and Student Enrollment

The Houston Galveston Area Council (H-GAC-13) has a population of more than 7.2 million, making it the fourth
largest metropolitan area in the country. Demographically and economically, the region has rapidly diversiﬁed,
transforming the city to a cosmopolitan, international center of business and industry. Over the last decade,
the population of H-GAC has experienced signiﬁcant growth, despite volatility in the oil and gas industry. As a
result, the district must be prepared to meet the challenges of educating an increasingly heterogeneous student
population. In light of the recent growth of service-sector jobs in the Houston area and U.S. economy, students
must be prepared for careers requiring advanced skills in mathematics, science, and technology, in addition to
strong reading and writing skills.
A ten year summary of the district’s enrollment changes is presented below:




The net eﬀect of Houston’s growing population on HISD’s student enrollment is diﬃcult to ascertain, due to many
complicating factors. In particular, the recent growth of state charter schools, private schools, and homeschooling,
combined with central-city demographic shifts and economic conditions will mitigate the eﬀect of the Houston
metropolitan area’s population increases, resulting in diﬃculty predicting the district’s enrollment. Additional
demographic information can be found in the Informational Section of this document.

Personnel Allocation

The district continues to monitor staﬃng at all levels and ﬁnds ways to be more eﬃcient. Central Oﬃce staﬃng
levels are monitored closely and were extensively reviewed during the 2025-2026 budget development process
to ensure the majority of district funds are directed toward classroom instruction and minimize the impact of
necessary district budget cuts to schools. HISD consistently maintains an administrative cost ratio below state
limits and peer districts, according to the Texas Schools Financial Integrity Rating System (FIRST).
The chart on the following two pages illustrates the staﬃng for the district, representing the various types of
positions from 2022 - 2026. As a result of the district’s belief in site-based decision-making, principals have direct
control over positions and employees listed in the campus category. Department positions include custodians,
police oﬃcers, transportation employees, speech therapists, special education diagnosticians, special education
teachers, and teacher aides who work at the campus-level, but who are managed and supervised by central
oﬃce departments.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary                                                                          33
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary   34
                             Organizational Section Table of Contents
                                                        Houston Independent School District



Superintendent of Schools ............................................................................................................ 36

Board of Managers ........................................................................................................................ 37

Organization Chart ........................................................................................................................ 39

District Structure ............................................................................................................................ 40

HISD Maps .................................................................................................................................... 41

HISD 2025-2026 Action Plan ......................................................................................................... 44

New Education System (NES)....................................................................................................... 50

Non NES Campuses ..................................................................................................................... 53

Budget Administration and Management Process......................................................................... 57

Budgetary Control and Accounting Basis.......................................................................................65




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                                                  35
                       Superintendent of Schools - Biography
                                         Houston Independent School District


                                        Mike Miles has dedicated his life to public service – ﬁrst as a soldier,
                                        then as a diplomat, and for the past thirty years as an educator. Most
                                        recently, Superintendent Miles served as founder and CEO of Third
                                        Future Schools, a school transformation system based on fundamentally
                                        diﬀerent principles of operating schools, and committed to preparing
                                        students for a Year 2035 workplace.

                                        Prior to this latest work, Mike served three years as the Superintendent
                                        of the Dallas Independent School District and six years as the
                                        Superintendent of the Harrison School District in Colorado Springs.
                                        Under his leadership, both districts implemented ground-breaking
                                        initiatives, established a high-performance culture, and experienced
                                        signiﬁcant growth in student achievement. As an instructional leader
                                        and professional developer, Mike has also helped teachers and
                                        administrators in school districts across the nation improve instruction
                                        and raise achievement.

                                      Superintendent Miles has also served the public interest as a soldier
                                      and statesman. He served his country as an oﬃcer in the Army’s elite
                                      Ranger Battalion and as a Company Commander. Miles then joined
the U.S. State Department as a Soviet analyst and member of the Bureau of Intelligence and Research. He
then served as a diplomat to Poland and Russia at the end of the Cold War, ﬁnishing his service in the State
Department as the Special Assistant to the Ambassador to Russia, before returning to the United States with
his wife and children.

Superintendent Miles holds degrees from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the University of California
at Berkeley, and Columbia University.




    2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                36
                          Board Members
                                                                   Houston Independent School District




                President                            Vice President                                 Secretary
               Ric Campo                         Angela Lemond Flowers                            Paula Mendoza




         Board Member                                  Board Member                              Board Member
       Michelle Cruz Arnold                             Edgar Colon                           Janette Garza Lindner




            Board Member                               Board Member                               Board Member
            Marty Goossen                               Lauren Gore                               Marcos Rosales
*The Board members featured on this page are current as of September and are subject to change following the upcoming election in
November


2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                                 37
                               Board of Managers · Administration
                                                                    Houston Independent School District



                          HISD School Board of Managers at time of this publication

                    Ric Campo                                                          Janette Garza Lindner
                    President                                                          Board Member

                    Angela Lemond Flowers                                              Marty Goossen
                    Vice President                                                     Board Member

                    Paula Mendoz                                                       Lauren Gore
                    Secretary                                                          Board Member

                    Michelle Cruz Arnold                                               Marcos Rosales
                    Board Member                                                       Board Member

                    Edgar Colon
                    Board Member

   As of June 1, 2023, the Texas Education Agency suspended the governance responsibilities of the elected Houston Independent School District
   Board of Education trustees under House Bill 1842. In their place, individuals appointed by the Commissioner of Education now assume all
   powers previously held by the trustees. This state intervention has recently been extended by the Texas Education Agency through June 1, 2027,
   ensuring continued oversight and authority during this period.



                                        Administration at time of this publication
                                                     F. Mike Miles
                                               Superintendent of Schools
                    Monica Zdrojewski                                                 Kari Feinberg
                    Chief of Staﬀ                                                     Chief of Organizational Eﬀectiveness

                    Kristen Hole                                                      Norma Castillo
                    Chief Academic Oﬃcer                                              Chief Human Resourse Oﬃcer

                    James Terry                                                       Daniel Girard
                    Chief Finance and Business Services                               Division Chief North

                    Kerri Holt                                                        Imelda de la Guardia
                    Chief Technology Oﬃcer                                            Division Chief South

                    Alishia Jolivette                                                 Daniel Soliz
                    Chief of Facilities, Maintenance & Ops                            Division Chief Central

                    Shamara Garner                                                    Kasey Bailey
                    Chief of Police                                                   Division Chief West

                    Catosha Woods                               .                     Sandi Massey
                    General Counsel                                                   Chief of Schools

                    Richard Guerra                                                    Orlando Riddick
                    Interim Chief of Public Aﬀairs &                                  Chief of Strategic Initiatives
                    Communications




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                                                 38
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section




39
                                                  This Organization Chart reﬂects HISD's Administration as of the Budget Adoption date.
                       District Structure
                                                Houston Independent School District



District Overview

The Houston Independent School District (HISD) is a ﬁscally independent, political subdivision of the State of
Texas located in Harris County. HISD is the largest public school system in Texas and the eighth largest in the
United States. It serves the city of Houston, Texas, the fourth largest city in the United States with a popula-
tion of more than 2.3 million and a land area of 640 square miles. The city and greater metropolitan area are
ethnically and culturally diverse. The district encompasses 333 square miles within greater Houston, encom-
passing approximately 52 percent of the geographic area of the City of Houston, all or part of four other cities
or villages, and certain unincorporated areas. HISD serves an enrollment of approximately 170,199 students
in pre-kindergarten through twelfth grade programs. The district has an estimated average daily attendance of
approximately 151,666 in 271 schools, including 6 external charter schools.
HISD was established on March 23, 1923, by an act of the 38th Texas Legislature, repealing an earlier law that
gave the City of Houston jurisdiction over the public schools, and creating the “Houston Independent School
District, separate and apart from the municipal government of the City of Houston.” The law gave the district
the power to levy and collect taxes, to issue and dispose of bonds, and to provide payment for them. Since its
inception, the district has grown in size and stature over the past 102 years to become one of the premier urban
school districts in the United States.
For the 2025-2026 year, the four division school oﬃces that align support to focus on campus needs are listed
on the charts below:




The document, ‘A Declaration of Beliefs and Visions’ has served as a roadmap to success since it was set forth
in 1990. It is a statement of HISD’s instructional and operational philosophy, and has been the cornerstone of
the district’s eﬀorts to improve student achievement, operational eﬃciency, public support, district culture, and
facilities. The basic tenet is HISD’s commitment to focusing all of its resources on students and schools. While
that commitment has remained constant, subsequent Boards of Education have varied in approach and strategies
for delivering the best outcomes for HISD students.




    2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                 40
                   2025-2026 HISD MAPS-Elementary Schools




Link to Map https://resources.ﬁnalsite.net/images/v1757703666/houstonisdorg/c8kzvsn9bvjslpgk1xdw/
ElementarySchoolAttendanceBoundaries20252026.pdf



2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                     41
                   2025-2026 HISD MAPS-Middle Schools




Link to Map https://www.houstonisd.org/our-district/demographics-strategic-planning#fs-panel-1109761




   2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                     42
                       2025-2026 HISD MAPS-High Schools




    LInk to Map https://www.houstonisd.org/our-district/demographics-strategic-planning#fs-panel-1109761




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                            43
                         HISD 2025-2026 Action Plan
                                                    Houston Independent School District


  Vision Statement
  The Houston Independent School District (HISD) empowers students to become critical thinkers, visionary
  leaders, and active contributors in their community, fostering a pathway to success for limitless opportunities
  in a competitive global landscape.
  For more on the district’s educational philosophy, please see Board Policy AE(LOCAL) at Policy Online.

  Student Outcome Goals

  Goal 1
  The percentage of grade 3 students in HISD earning Meets Grade Level on the State of Texas Assessments
  of Academic Readiness (STAAR) reading test will increase from 41 percent in June 2023 to 56 percent in June
  2028.

  Goal 2
  The percentage of grade 3 students in HISD earning Meets Grade Level on the STAAR math test will increase
  from 38 percent in June 2023 to 53 percent in June 2028.

  Goal 3
  The percentage of students graduating Texas Success Initiative (TSI)-ready and with an industry-based
  certiﬁcation (IBC) will increase from 11 percent for the 2021-22 graduates to 26 percent for the 2026-27
  graduates.

  Goal 4
  Students in grades 4 through 8 who receive special education services that achieve growth as measured by
  Domain 2 Part A of the state accountability system will increase from 63 percent in August 2023 to 78 percent
  in August 2028.

  Superintendent Constraints

  Constraint 1
  The Superintendent shall not allow the number of multi-year D or F campuses with a prior unacceptable rating
  to grow or maintain the same.

  Constraint 2
  The Superintendent shall not allow ineﬀective supports, systems, and processes for students receiving special
  education services across the district to negatively impact Individual Education Plan (IEP) development and
  implementation.

  Constraint 3
  The Superintendent shall not make signiﬁcant changes, directly or indirectly, to magnet or other specialized
  programming or school options without ﬁrst conducting, and communicating to the Board and community, an
  analysis of:

  The results of stakeholder engagement related to the anticipated change(s) to programming or school options;
  The projected impact of the anticipated change(s) to the programming or school options, including the
  projected eﬀectiveness and impact on the achievement of board-adopted student outcome goals, enrollment,
  and budget; and any related or potentially related research-based studies, which shall include, if applicable,
  a literature review.



2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                              44
    HISD Superintendent Mike Miles and his new administration initiated “Destination 2035,” a blueprint for turn-
    ing the District around and preparing students for a fundamentally diﬀerent world and workplace. HISD has
    now successfully implemented wholescale, systemic reform in 130 New Education System (NES) schools.
    This initiative has shown promising results, fostering a high-performance culture and implementing systemic
    improvements across instructional quality, evaluation systems, special needs support, and leadership de-
    velopment.

    HISD will stay the course and improve upon what has begun in this next school year. The Key Actions out-
    lined below align with the Destination 2035 plan and expand on the foundational work that has been done
    this past year.

    Superintendent's Key Actions

    1. Improve the quality of instruction
    Improving the quality of instruction must be the core work of any district. We have overhauled the
    components of the instructional system and have tied the various parts together in a way that has and will
    continue to dramatically improve student outcomes. Still, there is much work to do to improve the quality
    of instruction in a large urban district that previously had 274 autonomous schools, few of which were
    focused on improving instruction.

    We will strengthen the systems we put in place over the last year and a half and improve the
    implementation of these instructional strategies. We will dedicate time and resources to align all Executive
    Directors of Instruction (EDIs), Principals, and the district-level trainers and coaches on our expectations
    for instruction in every classroom every day. Each school's quality of instruction will be assessed by an
    independent review of the instructional quality -- known as IRT visits. These visits occur four times per
    year. Additionally, HISD currently serves 69K Emergent Bilingual students, so the district will increase its
    focus on achieving English Proﬁciency for this student group.

    2. Implement a new teacher evaluation and compensation system
    HISD currently administers a rigorous T-TESS evaluation system for all teachers in the District. The
    T-TESS evaluation is tied to student achievement outcomes and the quality of instruction.

    When the District of Innovation plan was created by the District Advisory Committee and approved by the
    Board of Managers in December 2023, it allowed for the District to develop a new evaluation system for
    teachers during the 2024-2025 school year. A new evaluation system – the Teacher Excellence System
    (TES) – will be brought to the Board for possible approval in March 2025. Should the Board pass the new
    evaluation system, the District will implement it in the 2025-2026 school year and tie compensation to the
    evaluation ratings beginning in the 2026-2027 school year.

    3. Improve SPED instruction, service delivery, and outcomes
    HISD has signiﬁcantly improved special education compliance since the start of the intervention. Many
    more students have been identiﬁed early, and 99.9% of ARD meetings have been conducted on time.
    We also improved special education achievement. However, we have much work to do in the area of
    instruction and rigor. In the 2025-2026 school year, we will continue to improve SPED compliance and
    place more emphasis on improving the quality of instruction for students receiving special education
    services.

    4. Strenghthen Principal and Executive Director Leadership
    Over time, if we are to improve reading proﬁciency in elementary and middle school, we will have to grow
    the number of Pre-K seats and improve the quality of instruction in preschool. High-quality Pre-K programs
    require adequate facilities, eﬀective teachers, and a robust curriculum with high-quality instructional
    materials.

    Our eﬀorts to signiﬁcantly increase the number of Pre-K available seats, especially in the highest demand
    areas, have been slowed by the failure to pass a bond. Still, in the 2025-2026 school year, we will expand




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                              45
  the number of Pre-K seats and work to improve the quality of instruction in preschool. Where possible, we
  will prioritize the underserved areas of the District that lack access to high-quality preschool seats.

  5. Improve Districtwide systems and eﬃciency
  As outlined in the Eﬃciency Report of February 2024, numerous systems that support the schools and our
  core function of improving student outcomes are dysfunctional or broken. Last year, we started to improve
  these systems but had to focus on right-sizing central oﬃce and eliminating wasteful spending, especially
  on purchased services that we employ people to do. We also had to change the culture of central oﬃce
  staﬀ to focus on supporting schools and holding ourselves accountable for speciﬁc goals and metrics.

  We will continue to improve each department’s support of the schools and the broader District goals.
  However, for the 2025-2026 school year, we will prioritize improving three systems: 1) transportation of
  students, 2) data integration and accuracy, and 3) the unit concept.

  6. Provide Accurate, Timely Information to the HISD Community
  Over the last decade, the media environment has drastically changed. The viralness of information –
  especially misinformation – has grown exponentially. Also, people seem to be more willing to believe
  almost anything that supports their point of view regardless of the facts. Our eﬀorts to persuade and
  inform in this type of media environment have suﬀered from the immediacy of misinformation and
  entertaining social content.

  7. Expand access to high-quality post-secondary pathways
  Historical HISD data shows the majority of HISD students are not graduating equipped for success
  in college or career. Only 14% of student are graduating from college and only 12% of students are
  completing a coherent sequence of CTE courses and obtaining an IBC, and indication of career readiness.
  Additionally, 57% of HISD graduates who enroll in college are required to take remedial coursework in
  math and reading which we know signiﬁcantly increases the chances of college drop out.

  In the last year and a half, the District has taken big steps to improve both college and career pathways
  for students in alignment with high-wage, high-demand jobs. This work starts early with a focus on
  improving student outcomes in all grades through high quality, Tier 1 instruction. This is critical to success
  given multiple research studies show that understanding key math concepts is predictive of success. For
  example, completion of Algebra I by 9th grade is highly predictive of high school graduation, success and
  college and higher earnings. Also, students' understanding of fractions and division in earlier grades is
  a strong predictor of their algebra knowledge and success in high school. The district has been rapidly
  growing students’ foundational learning and expanding access to advanced pathways. Additionally, the
  District has prioritized investment in four Programs of Study so more students have access to programs
  that lead to high-wage, high-demand jobs.

  Still, there is much more to do to transform CTE pathways and college success to prepare students for a
  diﬀerent workplace and world. We must continue to expand our advanced math pathways for students in
  middle school, improve TSI readiness in high school and improve college acceptance and matriculation
  rates. We also need to continue to provide upgraded programs of study and courses that help students
  learn how to use artiﬁcial intelligence to enhance their skills. A quick analysis conducted last year
  revealed large inequities in access to programs of study and pathways that are more rigorous and that will
  lead to higher-skilled careers. We need to change our operations to address these inequities and provide
  all students access to “future-oriented” programs of study.

  The failure of the bond makes it harder for us to prepare our students for a diﬀerent world and workplace.
  Nevertheless, we will invest as much as we can in upgrading our courses and programs of study. We plan
  to invest heavily in Barbara Jordan CTE Center and expand access to the center for students whose high
  schools do not have strong programs of study focused on high skill, high wage, and high demand jobs.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                46
 8. Address prioritized health and safety needs
 In the run-up to the bond election in 2024, the District identiﬁed immediate safety and health needs
 amounting to over $1 billion of a $4.4 billion bond. With the failure of the bond, we will still need to
 address the most severe health and safety needs. We will seek money from the State and federal grants
 to help pay for some of the facility needs, but most of the money will have to come from revenue we are
 able to generate and the prioritization of general fund monies.

 At the time of this writing, we are not sure when we will be in a position to go out for another bond election.
 Therefore, we are planning on allocating $100 million over the next two years to address the greatest
 needs in the area of health and safety.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                47
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section   48
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section   49
                     New Education System (NES)
                                            Houston Independent School District



 Schools in HISD’s New Education System (NES) receive additional resources and support to
 dramatically improve academic performance and give students a variety of enriching opportunities.

 NES schools:
      • Use an innovative staﬃng model to ensure students receive consistent high-quality instruction.
         The model also allows teachers to focus on their core work and have better work-life harmony.
      • Pay teachers and staﬀ higher salaries and diﬀerentiate compensation based on the subject taught
         as well as rigorous teacher and leader evaluation systems.
      • Have a speciﬁc instructional program and receive extra resources and support.
      • Provide Art of Thinking courses to teach students critical-thinking and problem-solving skills as
         well as how to assess, evaluate, and eﬀectively use information.
      • Provide specialty classes in the areas of ﬁtness, music and ﬁne arts, 21st-century media and
         technology, and hands-on science. These classes supplement schools’ existing electives and
         magnet programs and are taught by community consultants with speciﬁc knowledge and skills.
      • Oﬀer free trips for middle school students to experience new places and cultures.

 The NES is the largest and most signiﬁcant eﬀort to transform K-12 education in the United States
 while other districts have tried to improve schools by taking incremental steps—such as adopting a new
 curriculum or expanding certain programs—the NES involves whole-scale, systemic reform. Launched at
 underperforming campuses across HISD in the fall of 2023, the NES is designed to dramatically improve
 academic performance, close achievement gaps, and ensure Houston's students graduate prepared for the
 modern workplace and world. It is an ambitious eﬀort for our city—and, indeed, the nation—with the potential
 to remedy decades of ineﬀective K-12 policies and prove what is possible for America's students

 STRUCTURE:
 An innovative staﬃng model is designed to ensure students receive high-quality instruction every day and
 that teachers can focus on their core work.

 Given students' extensive needs, employees at NES campuses earn higher salaries than staﬀ at other HISD
 schools. Teachers also have a range of resources that promote better work-life harmony and encourage
 them to stay in the ﬁeld.

 A centralized team creates the daily lessons, which can be customized as necessary, so teachers do not
 have to spend a great deal of time outside school hours building lessons from scratch. Teachers receive
 regular coaching from instructional experts and are supported by teacher apprentices and learning coaches.

 Apprentices are earning their teacher certiﬁcation. They work alongside the teacher, learning the instructional
 model and eﬀective teaching practices; co-teaching; substituting as necessary; and participating in the
 same training as teachers. Apprentices are eligible for promotion to a teaching position at the campus upon
 receiving their certiﬁcation. Learning coaches supervise students’ higher-level independent and partner work
 and handle a variety of time-consuming tasks such as making copies and completing paperwork.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                50
INTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM

One of the ﬁrst things you will notice at an NES school is a rigorous instructional program directly tied to
state standards for what students should know and be able to do at each grade level. Pre-kindergarten
through second-grade classrooms use a traditional instructional format.

For students in third through twelfth grade, the format for math and English language arts combines direct
instruction with highly diﬀerentiated assignments. All English language arts/Spanish language arts and
mathematics classes in third through eighth grades are 90 minutes and begin with a Learning Objective for
what students should be able to accomplish at the end of the lesson. The ﬁrst 40 to 45 minutes are focused
on instruction using Multiple Response Strategies (MRS) to maximize student engagement.

These research-proven strategies are embedded into the lesson plan to keep students actively reading,
writing, discussing, and participating throughout the lesson. MRS also give teachers a way to gauge
whether students are grasping the lesson concepts, so teachers can clarify misconceptions and reinforce
students’ understanding in real time. See more information on the various MRS in the tab below.

While teachers teach, principals and assistant principals visit classrooms and observe instruction as part
of the daily routine. Administrators provide coaching and instructional support. This regular feedback helps
teachers continuously reﬁne their craft with immediate adjustments that positively impact student learning.
Coaching is as unobtrusive as possible—a quick whisper or a moment oﬀ to the side while students are
working on an activity.

The 40 to 45 minutes of direct grade-level instruction is followed by a 10-minute Demonstration of Learning
(DOL), or mini quiz. The DOL allows teachers to identify students who understand the content and those
who need more help.

Instruction follows the LSAE (Learner, Securing, Accelerated, Enriched) approach, which is designed to
ensure every student receives instruction tailored to their speciﬁc needs. See more information on the LSAE
levels in the tab below.

Students who master the day’s DOL—that is, those who are at the S2 (Secured), A (Accelerated), and (E)
Enriched levels—go to the Team Center for the last 35 minutes of class, where they do higher-level work
independently or in pairs. Learning coaches supervise the Team Center and guide students in that work.

Students who need more help—that is, those who are at the L (Learner) and S1 (Securing) levels—stay in
the classroom to keep working with the teacher and the teacher apprentice. Teachers re-teach concepts
students missed and provide targeted, small-group support to help them learn the content.

STUDENT EXPERIENCE

NES schools help students learn by building knowledge, perspective, and experience.

For HISD graduates to get good jobs in the future, they need to know how to think critically, solve problems,
work in teams, evaluate and use information, and communicate eﬀectively.

Students in grades three through eight take specialty Dyad classes in the areas of ﬁtness, music and ﬁne
arts, 21st-century media and technology, and hands-on science. Classes supplement schools’ existing
electives and magnet programs and are taught by community consultants with speciﬁc knowledge and
skills. Through Dyad, students gain access to a variety of free, in-school enrichment opportunities they
didn’t have before. They engage in experiential learning with their instructors and peers and explore ways to
get involved in their community.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                51
 ART OF THINKING

 Students in grades three through 10 take Art of Thinking three times a week. The class is focused on teaching
 critical thinking and problem solving and how to assess, evaluate, and eﬀectively use information. These are
 essential skills for students to process the large volume of information they receive through daily conversations,
 social media, and other digital channels.

 In Art of Thinking, students learn about perspective, a view or attitude toward something. They are taught to
 be wary of information posted anonymously; why it is important to reserve judgment and question what is
 presented as fact; and how to look for primary sources, consider possible agendas, and identify bias.

 Lessons also cover how to become a discerning user of data and facts. That is, how to consider sample size
 and how to recognize that data and facts can be "true" but can be used in ways to mislead and misinform—for
 example, when one data point or anecdote is accurate but should not be generalized to summarize an entire
 dataset or situation. Art of Thinking helps students understand how a person's point of view is inﬂuenced by
 experiences and the information to which they are exposed. Students also learn how broader perspective
 leads to better understanding and better decision making

 SCHOOL CULTURE

 There are clear expectations for maintaining a culture of respect and a safe and productive learning
 environment.

 Students must follow three overarching rules:

         1. Do not disrespect teachers or classmates
         2. Do not disrupt the learning environment
         3. No bullying

 Discipline is handled by administrators so teachers do not have to step away from instruction. Students who
 are disruptive are sent out of the classroom to take a time out, get counseled, or access other services and
 support. Most students who are removed from class for minor infractions rejoin their class remotely via Zoom
 until the next class period.

 Impact of NES
 When NES launched in 85 schools during the 2023–2024 school year, many of those campuses had faced years of academic
 challenges. The results are already signiﬁcant:

     •   Student achievement is rising with double-digit gains in math and reading proﬁciency in many NES
         schools.
     •   Campus ratings have dramatically improved. In 2023, only 11 NES schools earned an “A” or “B”
         rating. In 2024, that number jumped to 53—a remarkable 480% increase.
     •   Teachers and principals are better supported, receiving clear guidance and ongoing coaching on what
         high-quality instruction looks like.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                   52
                     Non NES Campuses
                                                  Houston Independent School District




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                         53
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section   54
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section   55
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section   56
                      Budget Administration & Management Process
                                                      Houston Independent School District



Statement of Texas Law

Sections 44.002 through 44.006 of the Texas Education Code establish the legal basis for budget development
in school districts. The following six items summarize the legal requirements from the code:

    •   The Superintendent is the budget oﬃcer for the district and prepares or causes the budget to be prepared
    •   Note: TEA recommends that an interactive approach between the Board of Managers and the
        superintendent be taken to establish the budget process and deﬁne related roles and responsibilities
    •   The district budget must be prepared by a date set by the state Board of Managers, currently August 20
        (June 19 if the district uses a July 1 ﬁscal year start date)
    •   The ﬁscal year of a school district begins on July 1 or September 1 of each year, as determined by the
        Board of Trustees of the district
    •   The president of the Board must call a public meeting of the Board of Managers, giving 10 days public
        notice in a newspaper, for the adoption of the district budget. Any taxpayer of the district may be present
        and participate in the meeting
    •   Concurrently with the publication of notice of the budget above, a school district must post a summary
        of the proposed budget on the school district’s Internet website or in the district’s central administrative
        oﬃce, if the school district has no Internet website. The budget summary must include a comparison to
        the previous year’s actual spending and information relating to per-student and aggregate spending on
        instruction, instructional support, central administration, district operations, debt service, and any other
        category designated by the commissioner. (Section 44.0041, TEC)


The summary of the budget should be presented in the following function areas:
  (A) Instruction – functions 11, 12, 13, 95
  (B) Instructional Support – functions 21, 23, 31, 32, 33, 36
  (C) Central Administration – function 41
  (D) District Operations – functions 34, 35, 51, 52, 53
  (E) Debt Service – function 71
  (F) Other – functions 61, 81, 91, 92, 93, 97, 99
  The “per student” will be based on student enrollment.
    •   No funds may be expended in any manner other than as provided for in the adopted budget. The board
        does have the authority to amend the budget or adopt a supplementary emergency budget to cover
        unforeseen expenditures
    •   The budget must be prepared in accordance with GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles)
        and state guideline
    •   The budget must be legally adopted before the adoption of the tax rate. However, if a school district has a
        July 1 ﬁscal year start date, then a school district must not adopt a tax rate until after the district receives
        the certiﬁed appraisal roll for the district required by Section 26.01, Tax Code. Additionally, a school
        district must publish a revised notice and hold another public meeting before the district may adopt a tax
        rate that exceeds the following: (1) The rate proposed in the notice prepared using the estimate; or (2)
        The district’s rollback rate determined under Section 26.08, Tax Code, using the certiﬁed appraisal roll




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                      57
TEA Legal Requirements
The Texas Education Agency (TEA) has developed additional requirements for school district budget preparation
as follows:
        • The budget must be adopted by the Board of Managers, inclusive of amendments, no later than
            August 31 (June 30 if the district uses a July 1 ﬁscal year start date)
       •   Minutes from district board meetings will be used by TEA to record adoption of and amendments to
           the budget
       •   Budgets for the General Fund, the Nutrition Services Fund (whether accounted for in the General
           Fund, a Special Revenue Fund or Enterprise Fund) and the Debt Service Fund must be included in
           the oﬃcial district budget (legal or ﬁscal year basis). These budgets must be prepared and approved
           at least at the fund and function levels to comply with the state’s legal level of control mandates
       •   The oﬃcially adopted district budget, as amended, must be ﬁled with TEA through PEIMS (Public
           Education Information Management System) by the date prescribed in the annual system guidelines.
           Revenues, other sources, other uses, and fund balances must be reported by fund, object (at the
           fourth level), ﬁscal year, and amount. Expenditures must be reported by fund, function, object (at
           the second level), organization, ﬁscal year, program intent and amount
       •   A school district must amend the oﬃcial budget before exceeding a functional expenditure category,
           (i.e., instruction, administration, etc.), in the total district budget. The annual ﬁnancial and compliance
           report should reﬂect the amended budget amounts on the schedule comparing budgeted and actual
           amounts. The requirement for ﬁling the amended budget with TEA is satisﬁed when the school district
           ﬁles its Annual Financial and Compliance Report

HISD Budget Policy
In addition to state legal requirements, HISD has established its own requirements for annual budget preparation.
The district’s ﬁscal policies dictate budgetary requirements that go beyond those required by the Texas Education
Code and TEA. These policies include:

Fund Balance Levels
The assigned fund balance is that portion of fund balance that is not available for appropriation or that has
been legally segregated for speciﬁc purposes. The unassigned fund balance is composed of designated and
undesignated portions. The undesignated portion represents that portion of fund balance that is available for
budgeting in future periods. Designated fund balances represent tentative plans for future use of ﬁnancial
resources. The Board of Managers designated a reserve for operations to set aside a minimum fund balance
reserve of ﬁve percent of general fund operations. This reserve is not available for use or appropriation unless
it is considered an emergency and is approved for spending by a two-thirds vote of the Board of Managers.

Carryover of Surpluses/Deﬁcits
Schools and departments are expected to operate within the budget established during the budgeting process.
Deﬁcits are charged against the budget for the ensuing year except for special circumstances.

Self-Insurance Reserve Fund and Insurance Claims
A reserve for self-insurance shall be maintained for the exclusive purpose of paying non-budgeted self-insured
losses, and/or insured losses until insurance recovery is made, or for uninsured/underinsured losses. If the
District elects a program of larger deductibles or self-insured retention, the estimated premium savings shall be
deposited to the self-insurance reserve. The Risk Management Department, with the cooperation of the individual
department or school, shall attempt recovery from negligent third parties for damage to district property. The Risk
Management Department shall coordinate claims with the various insurance companies.

Weighted Pupil Allocation Formula
The district has formulated a school-budgeting process that includes an allocation formula based on average
daily attendance, per student allocation, and enrollment.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                    58
Debt Management
Debt management policies are adopted by the Board of Managers and seek to provide the most favorable
climate for district debt projects while upholding the highest rating possible for debt instruments. Management
policies include the following points.
    •   All debt service obligations will be met on time
    •   Long-term ﬁnancing will be restricted to capital projects and purchases of equipment
    •   Long-term bonds will not be issued to ﬁnance current operations
    •   The district will cooperate and communicate with bond rating agencies and work towards obtaining the
        most favorable rating possible. Currently, HISD is rated

        Moody’s
        Enhanced (with Texas PSF guarantee) Aaa
        Underlying (stand alone) Aaa

        Standard & Poor’s
        Enhanced (with Texas PSF guarantee) AAA
        Underlying (stand alone) AA+
    •   Outstanding obligations will be frequently reviewed to ensure the most favorable funding structure for
        the district
    •   All necessary information and material regarding HISD’s ﬁnancial status will be provided to the appropriate
        parties.

Investments
Investments are stated at fair market value, which is the amount at which the investment can be exchanged in
a current transaction between willing parties. The objectives of cash management and investment policy are to:
    •   Assure the safety of district funds
    •   Maintain suﬃcient liquidity to provide adequate and timely working funds
    •   Match the maturity of investment instruments to daily cash ﬂow requirements
    •   Attain a market average rate of return consistent with the ﬁrst two objectives
    •   Diversify by maturity, instrument, and ﬁnancial institution where permitted by law
    •   Actively pursue portfolio management techniques
    •   Avoid speculative investments

Property Tax Exemptions
HISD chooses to oﬀer the optional homestead exemption of 20 percent as permitted by the State, to ease the tax
burden on homeowners. In 2022, the homestead exemption increased from $25,000 to $40,000. Homeowners
age 65 and older, or disabled recieve an additional exemption of $15,000.

Budget Development, Planning, and Submission
State law, as well as HISD Board of Managers policy, requires that the district’s annual budget be adopted
prior to the expenditure of funds. During the ﬁscal year, the Board must amend the budget for any increases
to functional appropriations or estimated revenue amounts. All supplemental appropriations must be within the
available revenues and fund equity (resources). Principals and central oﬃce administrators have access to an
online report that lists the detail transactions and remaining available funds by line item or detail account center.
In developing, evaluating, and improving the district's accounting and budgeting system, consideration is given
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or
disposition and that transactions are executed in accordance with management’s authorization and recorded
properly to permit the preparation of ﬁnancial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. The concept of reasonable assurance recognizes that the cost of a control should not exceed the
beneﬁts likely to be derived, and the evaluation of costs and beneﬁts requires estimates and judgments by
management.



2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                   59
As a recipient of federal, state, and local grants, the district is also responsible for an adequate internal control
structure as related to federal ﬁnancial assistance programs as well as compliance with applicable laws and
regulations. These internal controls are regularly tested for eﬀectiveness by auditors and management.
The district utilizes a line-item budget of proposed expenditures and the means of ﬁnancing them (in combination
with other approaches). The emphasis of the budget process is to identify the activities requiring resources
and to rank those activities according to the needs of the entire district. Budgetary control is maintained at
the function level by organizational unit through the encumbrance of estimated purchase amounts and other
expenditures prior to the execution of contracts, approval of personnel transactions, or release of purchase
orders to vendors. Those obligations that would result in an overrun of appropriated funds are not released until
additional appropriations are made available. Open encumbrances are reported as a reservation of fund balance
on June 30, the end of the ﬁscal year.

Once consensus is reached on these goals and objectives, current operations should be evaluated as to their
eﬀectiveness in achieving them. New programs may need to be developed for the current year’s operations to
attain goals and objectives that are not addressed by a school’s current programs. Programs should then be
prioritized as to their eﬀectiveness in attaining the developed goals and objectives.
Budget submission is completed electronically for schools. Budget units receive budget development packages
that allow them to develop their budgets electronically and submit them through the intranet. An overall summary
request is generated along with detailed line-by-line budget items. During the submission process, there is
frequent review and consultation process with Budgeting and Financial Planning staﬀ members.
The preparation of other budgets occurs simultaneously with the development of the General Fund budget.
Debt Service Funds are budgeted by the Controller’s Oﬃce and Budgeting and Financial Planning. Special
Revenue Funds are budgeted by the participants in the programs and grants (usually schools), some central
oﬃce departments, and Budgeting. Nutrition Service Funds budgets are created by the HISD Nutrition Services
department and reviewed by the Controller’s Oﬃce.

Budget Review and Coordination
The superintendent’s cabinet reviews budget increase requests and recommends overall prioritization of programs
and activities. Input from the various participants is used to determine the appropriateness of the submitted budgets
(see 2025-2026 Budget Development Calendar). Criteria for reviewing budget proposals, especially increase
requests, include the degree of alignment with districtwide goals and objectives, priority status compared with
other proposals, use of district resources for eﬃciency and eﬀectiveness, the unit’s track record for operational
performance, and the likelihood of success for particular initiatives and programs.

Final review and coordination of the annual budget is conducted in public workshops and hearings with members
of the community and the school board.

Budget Adoption
The compiled budgets for the district are submitted to the superintendent for review before they are formally
presented to the school board in early June as a recommended budget. The school board analyzes the
documentation and conducts public hearings and workshops to get input from the community on district spending
plans. After ﬁnal revision and amendment, the board formally adopts the budget in June. Budgets are approved
on a fund-by-fund basis. The district can make amendments to the budget at any time during the year; however,
amendments changing functional expenditure categories or revenue object accounts (as deﬁned in the Texas
Education Agency’s Financial Accountability System Resource Guide) must be approved by the Board of
Managers.

Budget Implementation
Implementation of the budget involves the procedural and technical processes that must occur for the proper
expenditure and recording of the various funds in the budget.

Encumbrance Control
Encumbrance accounting, the system under which purchase orders, contracts, and other commitments for the
expenditure of funds are recognized in the accounting system in order to reserve the portion of the applicable
appropriation, is employed in the Governmental Fund types. Encumbrances that have not been liquidated are



2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                   60
reported as reservations of fund balance since they do not constitute expenditures or liabilities. District policy
requires that such amounts be re-appropriated in the following ﬁscal year.

Auditing
Tests are conducted to determine the adequacy of the internal control structure of the district and the eﬀectiveness
and eﬃciency of expenditures as well as for compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Examples of the
types of audits performed include Internal Control Reviews, Expenditure and Revenue Audits, Account Balance
Audits, Contract Audits, Systems Documentation, and Compliance Reviews.

Purchasing
Purchasing procedures and guidelines are developed and monitored to ensure purchasing and contracting
compliance with all applicable statutory and legal requirements, Board of Managers policy, good purchasing
practice, and adherence to ethical standards. Also, the district seeks to improve participation by historically
under utilized businesses. Speciﬁc policies and procedures related to procurement can be found in the Finance
Procedures Manual, section 1300.

Budget Account Transfers
Transfer of campus discretionary funds requires principal approval for schools, and direct report or department
head approval for central oﬃce budgets. The district restricts transfers between funds (or business areas) and
within Special Revenue funds based on each particular grant’s requirements. Transfers can be made between
functions within the same fund (business area), and transfers can be made between objects within the same
fund or business area. For more detailed information, consult the Finance Procedures Manual, section 500
located on the district’s website.

Budget Amendments
Budget amendments are handled in basically the same fashion as a budget transfer request. Approval is required
by the principal or school support oﬃcer for schools and by the appropriate direct report or department head for
central oﬃce amendments.

Reporting System
HISD implemented the SAP (Systems Applications and Products) ﬁnance and accounting operation and control
system in 1998, to further the automation of ﬁnancial transactions, reduce transaction processing time and costs,
and provide more timely, accurate information regarding those transactions. The information provided by the
SAP system is designed to assist administrators in monitoring the ﬁnancial condition of the district and evaluating
the ﬁscal performance of the various budget units. Examples of information provided by SAP, include reports
detailing the original annual budget allocations for schools and departments, the available budgets of all units,
dynamic comparison of allocations to actual expenditures, purchase orders processed, but not yet received,
records of ﬁxed assets and inventories and budget transfers.
 The Annual Comprehensive Financial Report is prepared to report the detailed results of district operations, and
it includes statements and reports such as balance sheets for all funds, statements of revenue and expenditures,
detailed explanation of diﬀerent funds by function and major object, as well as miscellaneous statistical data in
accordance with the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) and Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP).

School-Based Budget Development Process
For 2025-2026, principals will be responsible for taking into consideration recommendations from their school’s
PTA/PTO, employee representatives, their school community, business partners, and the school’s Shared
Decision-Making Committee.
The district has formulated a school-budgeting process that includes a weighted per-pupil allocation formula
based on state student weights.
      • Grade Level Allocation
      • Adjustments–Provides an adjustment for enrollment increases or decreases in the next school year,
        based on the school projections
      • Special Population–G/T, CATE, At-Risk, Multilingual, Homeless, and Refugee students receive additional




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                  61
         weight in the resource allocation
      • Enrollment adjusted for 100 percent ADA (Average Daily Attendance)


 2025-2026 Budget Process
 Central Budget Committee for the 2025-2026 Budget
 The superintendent’s cabinet will review and rank all central oﬃce budget recommendations, including requests
 for increased funding. The cabinet’s responsibilities include the following:
      • Review all central-oﬃce initiatives, activities, and general programs for possible elimination, combination
         with another department, decentralization, or restructuring
      • Review and rank all new central-oﬃce recommendations for increased funding
      • Rank all central-oﬃce requests for increases in the Capital Acquisition Program
      • Submit ranked recommendations for increases to the chief fnancial oﬃcer and the superintendent of
         schools

Budget Monitoring
As budgeted funds are expended, the budget oﬃce monitors the budget on a monthly basis with a variance
report designed to track projected expenses versus one time expenses and project the budget’s end of year
available balance. While each level of the district’s organization is responsible for monitoring those budget items
for which it is responsible. the budget and ﬁnance team assist with projecting over expenditures and contribute
to ﬁscally responsible spending. Principals and Department leaders can monitor budgetary performance on a
transaction-by-transaction basis through access to the district’s enterprise resource planning software, SAP.
The HISD budget must also be submitted to TEA via the Public Education Information Management System
(PEIMS) transmission process. TEA monitors for compliance at the district level only. This monitoring is a legal
requirement to ensure mandatory expenditure levels in certain areas.

Evaluation
The last step in the budget process is evaluation, where performance data gathered in the monitoring phase
are assembled and evaluated to determine individual units as well as overall-district performance for the ﬁscal
year. This is usually accomplished in the summer as the budget for the next ﬁscal year is being developed.
As the strategic management and planning methodology becomes more ingrained into HISD’s culture, the
performance data gathered will become more detailed and better aimed at the programs and processes that are
most signiﬁcant to the overall operational performance and will allow a better view of organizational performance
over time. The results of the evaluation phase in the budgeting cycle, output directly into the planning phase for
the next budget year.
The three main areas of evaluation include schools and programs, stakeholder satisfaction, and budgetary
performance:
     • Schools and programs are evaluated for student achievement using such tools and measures as
       STAAR (State of Texas Assessments of Academic Readiness) tests, the Stanford 10 norm-referenced
       exams, attendance rates, drop-out and graduation rates, SAT and ACT test results, etc.
     • Stakeholder satisfaction is measured through questionnaires, survey instruments, and indirect
       measures such as voter approval rates of bond elections, etc.
     • Budgetary performance evaluation includes measures such as budget-to-actual or budget-to-
       projected actual comparisons of revenue, expenditures, cash ﬂow, fund balance, and staﬃng levels
Periodic evaluation or performance reports are issued to inform both district oﬃcials and the public of campus
and district performance. The annual budget document will continue to serve as a primary vehicle for delivering
evaluation results of the previous ﬁscal year and illustrating the underlying reasons for new budget allocations.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                62
A timeline of the 2025-2026 budget process is illustrated below:




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                    63
Below is the timelines for the development of the Capital Budget Process




   2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                         64
                           Budgetary Control and Accounting Basis
                                                     Houston Independent School District



Budgetary Control
Budgetary control is maintained through the encumbrance of estimated purchase amounts and other expenditures
prior to the execution of contracts or release of purchase orders to vendors. Those obligations that would
result in the overrun of appropriated funds are not released until additional appropriations are made available
via budgetary transfers. Such transfers must be approved by the principal (for schools) or by the appropriate
department head/superintendent’s direct report (for central departments). The district also encumbers each pay
period any obligated salary and beneﬁt expenditures for ﬁlled and vacant positions to ensure available balances
are accurate and to be able to do more accurate year-end forecasting. If the transfer increases a particular
functional amount, it must also be approved or ratiﬁed by the Board of Managers via one of the district’s semi-
annual functional report requests.

Basis of Budgeting
The basis of budgeting is the recognition of revenues and expenditures that the district has the legal authority to
spend or collect. The district budgets on an expected annual spend for the entire 12-month period of the ﬁscal year.
This basis is used for all governmental, enterprise, and internal service fund types. The budget is presented
to the Board of Managers for adoption each year and is reconciled to the accounting system each year before
the funds are made available. It is also reconciled two more times during the ﬁscal year with changes that have
occurred as well as any requested funding changes and presented to the Board of Managers for approval.

Basis of Accounting
The district’s basis of budgeting and accounting for all funds is maintained on a modiﬁed accrual basis as
prescribed by Generally Acceptable Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the TEA Financial Accountability System
Resource Guide, with revenues being recorded when available and measurable to ﬁnance expenditures of the
ﬁscal period. The general rule for recognition of revenues is 60 days and expenditures is 90 days. Expenditures
are recorded when services or goods are received and the fund liabilities are incurred. All estimated revenues,
appropriations, and expenditures are coded to speciﬁc funds (categorizing how it is ﬁnanced), accounts (describing
why and what funds are being received or goods and services are being purchased), and fund centers (who is
purchasing the goods or services) as mandated in the TEA Financial Accountability System Resource Guide.
Property taxes are recognized in the school year they are levied because they become due and collectable within
the ﬁscal year. The district’s goal is to maintain a ﬁve percent reserve for the operation account, in addition to
the unreserved undesignated fund balance.

The modiﬁed accrual basis of accounting or accrual basis of accounting, as appropriate, should be utilized in
measuring the ﬁnancial position and operating results.
(a) Governmental fund revenues and expenditures should be recognized on a modiﬁed accrual basis. Revenues
should be recognized in the accounting period in which they become available and measurable. Expenditures
should be recognized in the accounting period in which the fund liability is incurred, if measurable, except of
unmatured interest on general long-term debt, which should be recognized when due.
(b) Proprietary fund statements net assets and revenues, expenses and changes in fund net assets should be
recognized on the accrual basis. Revenues should be recognized in the accounting period in which they are
earned and become measurable; expenses should be recognized in the period incurred, if measurable.
(c) Fiduciary funds should be reported using the economic resources measurement focus and the accrual basis
of accounting, except for the recognition of certain liabilities of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans and certain post
employment healthcare plans.
(d) Transfers should be recognized in the accounting period in which the interfund receivable and payable arise.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                  65
Explanation of Funds
The diverse nature of the district’s operations and the necessity of legal compliance preclude recording the
ﬁnancial transactions of the district in a single fund. The district’s budgeting and accounting system is organized
and operated on a “fund basis” and on an organizational unit basis within each fund. Each fund is a distinct,
self-balancing accounting entity that is diﬀerentiated by funding source and is comprised of its assets, liabilities,
fund balances, revenues, and expenditures as appropriate.
How an expenditure is ﬁnanced determines the fund used, according to the TEA Financial Accountability System
Resource Guide. The acquisition, use, and balances of the government’s expendable ﬁnancial resources and
the related current liabilities are accounted for through the three board approved governmental funds (general,
nutrition services, and debt service funds.). Capital projects is presented for informational purposes only.




The General Fund is the primary operating fund, consisting of the general operations, capital acquisition
program, and on-behalf payments. While the General Fund represents over 80 percent of all HISD revenues and
expenditures, there are also other funds that support the various programs and services necessary to operate
and maintain the school system. The district’s other funds are described below, with further detail provided in
each fund section in the Financial Section of this document.


The Debt Service Fund accumulates the resources for the planned retirement of general long-term debt (including
contractual obligations) and related costs and is funded from annual tax revenue.

The Nutrition Services Fund provides for the operation of the school breakfast, lunch, and snack programs,with
funding derived primarily from the U.S.Department of Agriculture through the National School Lunch Program.
Over 80 percent of HISD students are eligible for free or reduced-price meals through this program. The Nutrition
Services Fund was previously an enterprise fund. It was reclassiﬁed as a governmental fund eﬀective ﬁscal
year 2017-2018.




    2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                     66
Classiﬁcation of Revenues
Although local property tax and Foundation School Program (FSP) revenues account for the majority of school
district revenues, other sources must be considered in completing a district’s overall annual revenue estimate.
Federal funds and private sources (e.g., private foundations, businesses, etc.) are forecasted as well. In addition,
school districts should examines delinquent tax collections, fees, and extracurricular revenue sources.

Other Sustaining Local Revenue Sources
Other sustaining local sources for the district include Pre-K tuition for students that are not eligible
for state funding and local government revenue from the City of Houston for school crossing-guards.

Classiﬁcation of Expenditures
While the responsibility for developing revenue estimates lies primarily with district administrators, expenditure
estimates are the shared responsibility of district administrators, support personnel and individual schools.
Budget guidelines may provide substantial guidance for the estimation of campus expenditures through the use
of standard cost allocations, per pupil estimates or other guidelines. If not, individual schools will be responsible
for estimating campus expenditures themselves. Regardless of whether expenditures are estimated at the
campus or district level, these estimates are critical to the development of the district’s budget.

Estimates of district/campus expenditures at the functional level normally will be made during budget preparation
for the following major expenditure categories (objects): (1) Payroll Costs (6100), (2) Professional and Contracted
Services (6200), (3) Supplies and Materials (6300), (4) Other Operating Costs (6400), (5) Debt Service (6500), (6)
Capital Outlay - Land, Buildings and Equipment (6600), and (7) Other Uses/Non-Operating Expenses/Residual
Equity Transfers Out (8900). Speciﬁc techniques for estimating these expenditure categories are discussed later
in the Informational Section of this document.

Expenditures by Functions
A function represents a general operational area in a school district and groups together related activities.
Most school districts use all of the functions in the process of educating students or organizing the resources
to educate students. For example, in order to provide the appropriate atmosphere for learning, school districts
transport students to school, teach students, feed students and provide health services. Each of these activities
are a function.

School districts are encouraged to use appropriate program intent and organization codes for all other costs that
are directly attributable to a speciﬁc program intent and/or organization. However, beneﬁts to the management
of the school district in relation to the eﬀort to allocate these costs should be examined before allocating costs
that are not mandatory.
Per TEA guidelines, if speciﬁc program intent codes are not used, the school district is to use Program Intent
Code 99 (Undistributed). If speciﬁc organization codes are not used, the school district is to use Organization
Code 999 (Undistributed) or Organization Code 998 (Unallocated, Local Option).

Instruction-Function 11
This function is used for activities that deal directly with the interaction between teachers and students. Teaching
may be provided for students in a school classroom, in another location such as a home or hospital, and in other
learning situations. Teaching may also be provided through some other approved medium such as television,
radio, telephone, telecommunications, multimedia and correspondence. This function includes expenditures
and/or expenses for direct classroom instruction and other activities that deliver, enhance or direct the delivery
of learning situations to students.

Certain expenditures must be accounted for by organization code and program intent code, deﬁned later in this
section.
Instructional Resources and Media Services-Function 12
This function is used for expenditures/expenses that are directly and exclusively used for resource centers,
establishing and maintaining libraries and other major facilities dealing with educational resources and media.

Curriculum Development and Instructional Staﬀ Development-Function 13
This function is used for expenditures/expenses that are directly and exclusively used to aid instructional staﬀ in



2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                   67
planning, developing and evaluating the process of providing learning experiences for students. Expenditures
and expenses include in-service training and other staﬀ development for instructional or instructional-related
personnel (Functions 11, 12, and 13) of the school district.

Instructional Leadership-Function 21
This function is used for expenditures/expenses that are directly used for managing, directing, supervising, and
providing leadership for staﬀ who provides general and speciﬁc instructional services.

School Leadership-Function 23
This function is used for expenditures/expenses that are used to direct and manage a school campus. They
include the activities performed by the principal, assistant principals and other assistants while they supervise all
operations of the campus, evaluate staﬀ members of the campus, and assign duties to staﬀ members maintaining
the records of the students on the campus.

Guidance, Counseling and Evaluation Services-Function 31
This function is used for expenditures/expenses that are directly and exclusively used for assessing and testing
students’ abilities, aptitudes and interests; counseling students with respect to career and educational opportunities
and helping them establish realistic goals. This function includes costs of psychological services, identiﬁcation
of individual characteristics, testing, educational counseling, student evaluation and occupational counseling.
Social Work Services-Function 32
This function is used for expenditures/expenses that are directly and exclusively used for activities such as
investigating and diagnosing student social needs arising out of the home, school or community; casework and
group work services for the child, parent or both; interpreting the social needs of students for other staﬀ members;
promoting modiﬁcation of the circumstances surrounding the individual student which are related to his or her
social needs. (This includes referrals to and interaction with other governmental agencies.)
Health Services-Function 33
This function is used for expenditures/expenses that are directly and exclusively used for providing physical
health services to students. This includes activities that provide students with appropriate medical, dental and
nursing services.
Student (Pupil) Transportation-Function 34
This function is used for expenditures/expenses that are incurred for transporting students to and from school.
Expenditures/expenses for regular bus routes to and from school are to be recorded using Program Intent Code
99 (Undistributed), and Organization Code 999 (Undistributed) or Organization Code 998 (Unallocated, Local
Option). Expenditures/expenses for transportation speciﬁcally and exclusively for purposes of transporting
students relating to enhanced program intents such as Career and Technology and Services to Students with
Disabilities (Special Education), etc., are to be recorded in Function 34 with the appropriate program intent codes.
Food Services-Function 35
This function is used for food service operation expenditures/expenses, including the cost of food, labor, and
other expenditures/expenses necessary for the preparation, transportation and storage of food to provide to
students and staﬀ. Expenditures/expenses are used directly and exclusively for supervision and maintenance
of a food service operation.
Extracurricular Activities-Function 36
This function is used for expenditures/expenses for school-sponsored activities outside of the school day. These
activities are generally designed to provide students with experiences such as motivation and the enjoyment
and improvement of skills in either a competitive or noncompetitive setting.
 Extracurricular activities include athletics and other activities that normally involve competition between schools
(and frequently involve oﬀsetting gate receipts or fees such as football, baseball, volleyball, track and tennis).
Other kinds of related activities are included (such as drill team, pep squad and cheerleading, University
Interscholastic League competition such as one-act plays, speech, debate, band, Future Farmers of America
(FFA), National Honor Society, etc.).
If the school district has activity funds, the goods purchased for resale are to be classiﬁed in this function, with
the gross sale of goods recorded in Revenue Object Code 5755, Results from Enterprising Activities, Activity
Funds and/or Clearing Accounts.



    2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                      68
General Administration-Function 41
This function is for expenditures/expenses that are for purposes of managing or governing the school district
as an overall entity. This function covers multiple activities that are not directly and exclusively used for costs
applicable to speciﬁc functions. General administration is an indirect cost applicable to other expenditure
functions of a school district.
Facilities Maintenance and Operations-Function 51
This function is used for expenditures/expenses for activities to keep the facilities and grounds open, clean,
comfortable and in eﬀective working condition and state of repair and insured. This function is used to record
expenditures/expenses for the maintenance and operation of the physical facilities and grounds. This function
also includes expenditures/expenses associated with warehousing and receiving services.
Security and Monitoring Services-Function 52
This function is used for expenditures/expenses that are for activities to keep student and staﬀ surroundings
safe, whether in transit to or from school, on a campus or participating in school-sponsored events at another
location.
Data Processing Services-Function 53
This function is for expenditures/expenses for data processing services, whether in-house or contracted.
Examples of Function 53 costs are costs for computer facility management, computer processing, systems
development, analysis of workﬂows, processes and requirements; coding, testing, debugging and documentation;
systems integration; design of applications supporting information technology infrastructure; maintenance of
programs; maintenance of networks; and those interfacing costs associated with general types of technical
assistance to data users. Speciﬁc types of applications include student accounting, ﬁnancial accounting and
human resources/personnel. Personal Computers (PC’s) that are stand alone are to be charged to the appropriate
function. Peripherals, including terminals and printers, are to be charged to the appropriate function. Costs
associated with mainframe, minicomputers, servers and networked or stand alone microcomputers that provide
services to multiple functions are to be recorded here.
Community Services-Function 61
This function is used for expenditures that are for activities or purposes other than regular public education
and adult basic education services. These types of expenditures are used for services or activities relating
to the whole community or some segment of the community. This includes providing resources to non-public
schools, institutions of higher education, and any proprietary types of services incurred for outside entities in
the community
Debt Service-Function 71
This function is used for expenditures that are for the retirement of recurring bond, capital lease principal, and
other debt, related debt service fees, and for all debt interest. Note principal for short-term loans (one year or
less in duration) is to be recorded in the liability account 2122, Notes Payable-Current Year.
Capital Outlay-Function 80
This function code series is used for expenditures that are acquisitions, construction, or major renovation of
school district facilities.
Facilities Acquisition and Construction-Function 81
This function is used by school districts for expenditures that are for acquiring, equipping, and/or making additions
to real property and sites, including lease and capital lease transactions.
Intergovernmental Charges-Function 90
“Intergovernmental” is a classiﬁcation that is appropriate where one governmental unit transfers resources to
another. In particular, Chapter 41 purchase of WADA and the transfer of students where one school district
pays another school district for educating students are examples of intergovernmental charges.
Contracted Instructional Services Between Public Schools-Function 91
This function code is used for expenditures that are used for providing ﬁnancial resources for services in another
public school through a contract for education of nonresident students under Subchapter E, Chapter 41, TEC;
and purchasing attendance credits from the state under Subchapter D, Chapter 41, TEC.
Costs for contractual arrangements under Subchapter E, Chapter 41, are recorded under this function code
only if the agreement is to pay for services managed and administered by another school district receiving
payments under Subchapter E, Chapter 41, TEC. This function is to be used exclusively for the purchase of



2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                    69
Weighted Average Daily Attendance (WADA) from either the state or other school districts.
Incremental Costs Associated with Chapter 41, Texas Education Code, Purchase or Sale of WADA-
Function 92
This function code is used for expenditures that are for the purpose of positioning a school district with Chapter
41 excess wealth per WADA to purchase attendance credits either from the state or from other school district(s).
Payments to Fiscal Agent/Member Districts of Shared Services Arrangements-Function 93
This function code is used for expenditures that are for (1) payments from a member district to a ﬁscal agent of
a shared services arrangement; or, (2) payments from a ﬁscal agent to a member district of a shared services
arrangement.
Payments to Juvenile Justice Alternative Education Programs-Function 95
This function code is used for expenditures that are for the purpose of providing ﬁnancial resources for Juvenile
Justice Alternative Education Programs under Chapter 37, TEC. This function code is used to account for
payments to other governmental entities in connection with students that are placed in discretionary or mandatory
JJAEP settings.
Payments to Tax Increment- Function 97
This function code is used for expenditures that are for the purpose of providing ﬁnancial resources paid into
a tax increment fund (TIF) under Chapter 311, Tax Code. The revenues are recorded under fund 199, Object
5746. The expenditures are recorded under fund 199, Object 6499.
Other Intergovernmental Charges- Function 99
This code is used to record other intergovernmental charges not deﬁned above.
This function code is used for expenditures that are used for obtaining instructional services from another public
school for grade levels not served in a school district under Section 25.039, TEC.
Expenditures/Expense Object Code
Expenditures/expenses should be classiﬁed by the major object classes according to the types of items purchased
or services obtained. Expenditure codes always begin with the digit “6.”
An expenditure/expense account identiﬁes the nature and object of an account, or a transaction. The school
district’s accounting records are to reﬂect expenditures/expenses at the most detail level, as depicted in the chart
of accounts (4 digits) for accounting and Public Education Information Management System (PEIMS) reporting
(actual data) purposes. For PEIMS budget reporting purposes, expenditures/expenses are reported to the second
digit of detail (6100, 6200, etc.) If a school district needs to use codes in addition to the mandatory codes for
managerial purposes, the optional codes provided for local use in the TEA code structure should be used.

6100 Payroll Costs
This major classiﬁcation includes the gross salaries or wages and beneﬁt costs for employee services. An employee
is paid a salary or wage. The school district acts in a supervisory capacity over an employee and furnishes the
working area and usually the equipment and materials necessary for the completion or performance of a task
or service. Although an employee may work with more than one supervisor subsequent to, during, or after the
normal employment period of hours, if the services or tasks performed are at the general direction of the school
district, the amount paid to that employee is considered a payroll cost.

6200 Professional and Contracted Services
This major account classiﬁcation is used to record expenditures/expenses for services rendered to the school
district by ﬁrms, individuals, and other organizations. This includes services provided by internal service funds
unless the internal service fund is used to account for employee beneﬁts. Internal service fund expenditures/
expenses for employee beneﬁts, such as health insurance, are to be classiﬁed to the appropriate code in the
6100 series of accounts. Normally, professional and contracted services represent a complete service that is
rendered for the school district, and no attempt should be made to separate labor from supplies.

6300 Supplies and Materials
This major classiﬁcation includes all expenditures/expenses for supplies and materials.

6400 Other Operating Costs
This major classiﬁcation is used to classify expenditures/expenses for items other than payroll costs, professional
and contracted services, supplies and materials, debt service and capital outlay that are necessary for the
operation of the school district.



    2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                    70
6500 Debt Service
This major classiﬁcation includes all expenditures for debt service. All debt service object codes must be used
only with Function 71, debt service.

6600 Capital Outlay - Land, Buildings and Equipment
This major classiﬁcation is used to classify expenditures for capital assets.

8900 Other Uses
This major classiﬁcation is used to classify other uses such as transfers out to other funds and are not considered
normal operational expenditures for most state expenditure calculations.


Program Intent

The program intent is a two-digit code that identiﬁes the cost of instruction and other services that are directed
toward a particular need of a speciﬁc set of students. The intent (the student group toward which the instructional
or other service is directed) determines the PROGRAM INTENT CODE, not the demographic make-up of the
students served.

Program
Intent
Code             Program Intent Code Description

11               Basic Educational Services
21               Gifted and Talented
22               Career and Technical
23               Services to Students with Disabilities (Special Education)
24               Accelerated Education
25               Bilingual Education and Special Language Programs
26               Nondisciplinary Alternative Education Programs – AEP Services
28               Disciplinary Alternative Education Program – DAEP Basic Services
29               Disciplinary Alternative Education Program – DAEP Supplemental
30              Title I, Part A Schoolwide Activities Related to State Compensatory Education (SCE) and
                Other Costs on Campuses with 40 percent or More Educationally Disadvantaged Students
31               High School Allotment
33               Pre-Kindergarten—Special Education
36               Early Education Allotment
37               Dyslexia
38               College, Career, and Military Readiness
43               Dyslexia - Special Education
91               Athletics and Related Activities
99               Undistributed




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Organizational Section                                                                 71
                                Financial Section Table of Contents
                                                                    Houston Independent School District




Governmental Fund Types ......................................................................................................................... 73
   General Fund ........................................................................................................................................80
   Nutrition Services Fund .........................................................................................................................87
   Debt Service Fund ................................................................................................................................91
Capital Program.......................................................................................................................................... 93




     2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section                                                                                                                72
                           Governmental Fund Types
                                                        Houston Independent School District


   Governmental Fund Types are those through which most governmental functions of the district are ﬁnanced.
   The acquisition, use and balances of the district’s expendable ﬁnancial resources, and the related liabilities are
   accounted for through the Governmental Fund Types. The following are the district’s major governmental funds:

          •General Fund – The General Fund is the primary operating fund of the district and accounts for all
           revenues and expenditures of the district not encompassed within other funds.
          •Nutrition Services Fund – The Nutrition Services Fund is used to account for the operations of the
           breakfast, lunch, snack, and dinner programs oﬀered and managed through the district’s own Nutrition
           Services Department.
          •Debt Service Fund – The Debt Service Fund is used to account for the accumulation of resources and
           the retirement of general long-term debt and related costs.

   They are presented on the following pages with four historical years, adopted budget and with three years of
   budget forecasts. Budget forecasting is one of the various tools used in the annual budget development process.
   Budget forecasts assumptions are included to identify projected revenue and other resources, expenditure de-
   mands and changes in fund balance for the upcoming years. The ﬁgures are meant for planning purposes only
   and are subject to change.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section                                                                     73
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   74
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   75
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   76
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   77
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   78
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   79
                        General Fund
                                                        Houston Independent School District


The General Fund is the district’s principal fund, accounting for the majority of current operating expenditures.
Recorded in the General Fund are transactions encompassing the approved current operating budget, related
revenues, expenditures, assets, liabilities, and fund balance. Financial transactions of the district are recorded
in detail in the general ledger by objects and functions within projects and programs. This fund has often been
described as an operating or current fund and includes revenues from an ad valorem local maintenance tax,
state funding, and other sources such as tuition, fees, and investment earnings.

The district has four sources of revenue: Local, State, Federal, and Other

Local Sources
Current property tax revenue (levy) is the district’s largest revenue source in the amount of $1,563,545,630 or
75.10 percent of all General Fund Revenues. The district has been seeing signiﬁcant increases in the local roll
values as shown in the Informational Section of this document. However, unlike many city and county tax rolls
HISD does not keep all the increase in tax revenues generated. Under the state funding formula, as local prop-
erty values rise the state reduces their share of public education. In fact, the state share of formula revenue in
HISD has increased from 7.38 percent in ﬁscal year 2025 to 16.75 percent in ﬁscal year 2026.

The revenue projections used for 2025-2026 are based oﬀ the certiﬁed estimated roll value that the district
receives in April of each ﬁscal year. The district works with the Harris County Appraisal District (HCAD) early in
the year, usually around February, to determine a starting point for tax revenue projections. These projections
are used to build early estimates of the district’s budget resources and help with the planning and ranking of
programs in the upcoming years. The district has traditionally taken a conservative approach in early revenue
projections and in the past has been able to fund projects on a ranked planning list.

State Sources
State sources include the Foundation School Program (FSP) which is formula driven based oﬀ the district’s
property values and student counts at approximately $110.5 million for 2025-2026. Available School Fund
(ASF) is revenue from the states permanent fund and is revenue earned on a per capita basis for education
by all school districts as outlined in the state’s constitution at approximately $73.2 million. Also included is
pass-through funding of $103 million for the state’s contribution to the Texas Teacher’s Retirement System
(TRS). Total state funding (including the pass-through funds) is approximately 19.5 percent of the total rev-
enues of the district. Without the pass-through funds the state funding is approximately 14.6 percent of total
operating revenues.

Federal Sources
Federal sources total $21.6 million and include Build America Bond subsidy payment of $4.5 million, federal
revenue from TEA (indirect cost) of $15 million, direct federal revenue $300,000 and revenue for the JROTC
staﬀ from the Army, Air Force, and Navy in the amount of $1.9 million.

Other Sources
Other sources are transfers from the district’s Medicaid program of $18 million.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section                                                                         80
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   81
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   82
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   83
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   84
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   85
Classiﬁcation of Fund Balances:


The following table shows fund balances as of June 30, 2025:




Other Post-Employment Beneﬁt Plans (OPEB)

Health Care Plan Description (TRS-Care)

The district participates in the Texas Public School Retired Employees Group Insurance Pro-
gram (TRS-Care). It is a multiple-employer, cost-sharing deﬁned Other Post-Employment Beneﬁt
(OPEB) plan that has a special funding situation. The plan is administered through a trust by the
Teacher Retirement System of Texas (TRS) Board of Trustees. It is established and administered
in accordance with the Texas Insurance Code, Chapter 1575. The Board of Trustees is granted the
authority to establish basic and optional group insurance coverage for participants as well as to
amend beneﬁt tems as needed under Chapter 1575.052. The Board may adopt rules, plans, pro-
cedures, and orders reasonably necessary to administer the program, including minimum beneﬁts
and ﬁnancing standards.

The district’s Accrued Obligation for Post-Employment Beneﬁts – as of June 30, 2025 net pension
liability was $502,451,392.




   2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section                                                       86
                        Nutrition Services Fund
                                                      Houston Independent School District



  The Nutrition Services Fund is used to account for the ﬁnancial operations of the breakfast, lunch, snack and
  dinner programs oﬀered and managed through the district’s own Nutrition Services Department. The district
  currently operates nearly 300 school cafeterias and satellite programs serving an average of over 160,000
  meals a day.

  The district participates in the federally funded School Breakfast Program (SBP) and National School Lunch
  Program (NSLP) which provides partial reimbursement of the cost for each qualifying meal served to stu-
  dents. The remaining costs of preparing and serving these meals are covered by cash sales of A la Carte
  items for the students, staﬀ meals, visitor meals and state-matching funds. Every school in the district cur-
  rently participates in the Community Eligibility Provision (CEP); where meals are provided at no charge to
  students. The district also participates in the After School Care Program (ASCP), Fresh Fruit and Vegetables
  Program (FFVP), Farm to School Program (FTS), SMART Snack Program, Child and Adult Care Food Pro-
  gram (CACFP), Summer Food Service Program (SFSP), Seamless Summer Option (SSO), and the USDA
  Foods Program (formerly known as USDA Commodities).

  It is presented on the following pages with four historical years, the adopted budget, along with three years
  of budget forecasts. Budget forecasting is one of the various tools used in the annual budget development
  process. Budget projection assumptions are included in identifying projected revenue and other resources,
  expenditure demands and changes in fund balance for the upcoming years. The ﬁgures are meant for plan-
  ning purposes only and are subject to change.

  The Nutrition Services Fund was previously an enterprise fund. It was reclassiﬁed as a governmental fund
  eﬀective ﬁscal year 2017-2018.

  NUTRITION SERVICES

  REVENUE
  Federal reimbursements are forecasted to increase by an average of 2.9 percent due to an increase in the
  federal reimbursement rates based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI). We plan to build on the successes
  we have seen with breakfast carts in MS and HS SY 2024-2025; 10% breakfast increase at schools that
  have implemented breakfast carts. We’ve added 20 additional carts for SY 2025-2026. Plans are in place
  to reallocate carts we do have to ensure the low performing carts are moved to other areas. Our aim is to
  promote breakfast for all grades; BIC, Breakfast in the Hallway, and Second Chance Breakfast. We intend to
  increase lunch participation by 3.5% by reviewing results from the Customer Satisfaction Survey, improving
  lunch line presentation, featuring locally grown produce, incorporating cultural relevance, menu innovation,
  execution Around the World Wednesdays and increasing promotions (especially in high schools and middle
  schools). We plan to increase supper participation by 1%+ with new supper options, partnering with athletics
  and extracurricular activities and converting snack programs to “super snack” options. We plan to increase
  ALC sales by 10% by oﬀering new items, optimizing pricing, utilizing breakfast carts and piloting Bento boxes,
  ALC salads, grab-n-go options and coﬀee products in the high schools. Houston Eats Catering will continue
  to have ﬁrst right of refusal for all catering requests districtwide. Houston Eats is continuing to build capacity
  to meet culinary demand. The following are targeted events for Houston Eats: Back-to-School Night / Open
  House, Parent-Teacher Conferences, School Fundraisers I.E., bake sales, silent auctions, or charity dinners,
  PTA/PTO Meetings, Graduation Ceremonies & Parties, Holiday Events & Festivals, School Carnivals & Field
  Days and Appreciation Events.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section                                                                       87
  EXPENSES
  To manage expenses, we’ll increase monitoring of performance and KPIs by implementation of new dash-
  boards improvement for SY 2025-2026. These improvements include School P&Ls, waste tracking and in-
  ventory management. Our goal is to decrease waste by 25% year-over-year for the 2025-2026 school year.
  A 25% decrease would be approximately $700,000.


  Houston Eats Café & Starbucks
  The FY2026 budget created for Enterprise Funds included Houston Eats Café & Starbucks operations. The
  Houston Eats Café, formerly known as Hattie Mae White Café and Starbucks will return in the fall with coﬀee
  beverages, grab & go options and a quick service grill station.

  REVENUE
  The Houston Eats Café and Starbucks kiosk will continue to provide coﬀee products, hot & cold breakfast and
  lunch options and convenience items. This business model is expected to continue its delivery of proﬁtable
  results by minimizing overhead costs and staﬃng.

  EXPENSES
  The Houston Eats Café is now consolidated with the Starbucks budget for facilities, staﬃng and food service
  operations.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section                                                                88
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   89
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   90
                        Debt Service Fund
                                                      Houston Independent School District


The Debt Service Fund includes all accounts necessary to record transactions reﬂecting revenues collected
from taxes and investment earnings and expenditures made for the payment of interest and principal on long-
term, general debt obligations.

The tax rate for the Debt Service fund is levied to pay general obligation debt of the district. Less than 5 percent
of the resources necessary to meet debt service needs are received in the form of state funds.

Growth in the property tax rolls has decreased from double digit increases in prior years and is represented
in more detail in the Informational Section

The debt service tax rate for 2025-2026 has remained the same from the previous year at $0.1667 in the
adopted budget.

A school district is authorized to issue bonds and levy taxes for the payment of bonds subject to voter ap-
proval of a proposition submitted to the voters under Section 45.003(b)(1) of the Texas Education Code, which
provides a tax for the support of school district bonded indebtedness. Section 45.0031 of the Texas Education
Code essentially limits a school district’s maximum Interest & Sinking Fund (I&S) tax rate to $0.50 per $100
valuation, equating to a debt limit of 7% of a district’s taxable assessed valuation. The district’s current I&S
tax rate of $0.16670 is well below the maximum $0.50 rate.

 As of June 30, 2025, the District had net bonded debt outstanding of $1.35 billion. The District debt totals
included $248.8 million in Variable Rate Bonds outstanding at ﬁscal year-end. Based on the current assessed
property value of approximately $234B, the district has suﬃcient capacity to incur additional bonded debt for
future years without exceeding legal debt limits. The ratio of net general bonded debt to assessed valuation and
the amount of bonded debt per student are useful indicators of the District’s debt position. This data reﬂects a
decrease in the ratio of net bonded debt to assessed value to .58 percent, as compared to .74 percent last year.

The debt obligations of the District are rated ‘Aaa’ by Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) and ‘AAA’ by Stan-
dard & Poor’s Global Ratings (“S&P”), a business unit of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC, by virtue
of a guarantee by the Texas Permanent School Fund Bond Guarantee Program. The outstanding unenhanced
tax supported debt of the District is rated ‘Aaa’ by Moody’s and ‘AA+’ by S&P. Rating information referenced
is as of the last rating reviews in June of 2025 for Moody’s and July of 2025 for S&P.



.




    2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section                                                                         91
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   92
                       Capital Program
                                                   Houston Independent School District



Capital Program
The Capital Program is a plan for creating, maintaining and paying for HISD’s present and future infrastructure
needs. About every ﬁve to six years, an external consultant assesses the district’s facilities and makes
recommendations to the Board of Education by identifying existing facilities repair needs or potential
replacements as well as other new facilities required in the future.

Capital Renovation Fund
The Capital Renovation Fund is a governmental fund used for the accounting of all non-routine capital
improvement costs for renovation, expansions, upgrades and rebuilding of district facilities. The Capital
Renovation Fund has six diﬀerent funding sources to fund its capital projects needs including:

•    Voter-approved bond funds
•    Maintenance Tax Notes
•    Tax Increment Reinvestment Zone (TIRZ) funds
•    Special Projects funds
•    Miscellaneous funding
•    Storm Fund

Voter-Approved Bond Funds—Facilities-to-Standard Program
The various projects funded by these sources have allowed the district to update its infrastructure to meet
student’s educational needs of the 21st century. HISD has built a nationwide reputation for progress and
innovation in public education and the successes of the district’s current facilities program has indeed
contributed to the HISD’s prestige. Schools that are clean, safe, modern and inviting, allow teachers to
concentrate on teaching while providing students with optimal learning environments, as evidenced by
improvements in student academic performance as a result of HISD’s Facilities Program. The Capital
Renovation Fund accounts for the district’s capital improvement programs which are primarily funded by
voter authorized bonds.
In 1997, HISD undertook a systematic, objective approach to rebuild and repair school buildings for Houston’s
children, then, now, and for the future. Two Project Management ﬁrms, Jacob’s Engineering, Inc. and 3D/
International, Inc., conducted a comprehensive assessment of the conditions and educational suitability of
all the HISD facilities, documenting more than $1.2 billion of needed repairs. The completed assessment
provided HISD with information to develop a request for a bond referendum.
The recommended facility plan provided for creating safe, high-quality facilities while dramatically improving
learning environments for Houston students, by rebuilding, expanding, upgrading and renovating schools that
no longer met contemporary standards for learning. In addition, the facility plan aimed to beneﬁt Houston’s
communities by funding new and upgraded schools that would promote safer neighborhoods. The original
plan called for a three-phase Facilities-to-Standard Program to address improvements to the HISD schools
and support facilities. The program phases would be funded by three individual bond referendums. The ﬁrst
bond program, Rebuild 2002 for $678 million, was approved in 1998 by overwhelming voter support.
In July 2002, the HISD’s Board of Education voted to place another bond referendum on the general election
ballot in November 2002, to begin the second phase of school construction and renovation. The initiative
was called Rebuild HISD, which was designed to help continue the district’s outstanding record of academic
progress and operation innovation by bringing more district facilities up to standard. In November 2002,
Houston voters approved the second, $808.6 million bond program, Rebuild HISD.



    2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section                                                                    93
In November 2007, HISD went to the voters for the third phase of the Facilities-to-Standard Program requesting
$805 million to complete this project. Once again, the votes were in favor of this program.
In November 2012, Houston voters by a margin of nearly 2 to 1 approved a $1.89 billion bond referendum to
replace and repair 40 schools, including 29 high schools. In addition, the bond program includes funds that will
beneﬁt students across the district, including funding for technology upgrades, replacement of regional ﬁeld
houses, athletic facilities improvements, middle school restroom renovations, and safety and security upgrades.
Despite a challenging construction market, the bond program made huge progress in the planning, design,
and construction of new schools. The amount of construction work that took place was unrivaled and marked a
major district milestone as 6.8 million of square footage was completed in this program.
For each of these programs, the Construction Services Department was charged with the selection of program
managers, who are responsible for managing the architects, engineers, and general contractors to carry out
projects from planning to completion. The Bond Oversight Committee, an independent citizen’s committee
composed of building and construction professionals and community members, was created to ensure that the
various projects stay on track and that taxpayer dollars are being spent wisely. Construction Services provides
the Bond Oversight Committee with regular updates, status reports, and program information. It is the ultimate
goal of Construction Services to ensure that the Bond Program upholds the HISD’s long-term commitment to
Houston’s schools, students, and communities.


Maintenance Tax Notes 2025
In May 2025, the school board approved the resolution authorizing the issuance of Houston Independent
School District Maintenance Tax Notes not to exceed $120,000,000. Maintenance Tax Notes are a ﬁnancing
tool available to Texas school districts to help fund capital needs. Authorized under state law (Texas Education
Code Section 45.108), these Maintenance Tax Notes allow districts to borrow money for projects for capital
needs. The $120 million will be used to address a broad range of critical infrastructure needs across the district
such as health and security capital improvements, transportation system revamp, Barbara Jordan upgrade,
CCMR/CTE improvements, and IT infrastructure upgrade.



Tax Increment Reinvestment Zones (TIRZ)
The City of Houston began its use of tax increment reinvestment zones in 1990 with the creation of Zone 1,
Lamar Terrance Zone (St. George Place). This ﬁrst eﬀort was because of the City’s receipt of a petition by area
residents for the zone’s creation. The zone’s project plan and reinvestment ﬁnancing plan set forth the plan to
construct and ﬁnance costs associated with the installation of new public infrastructure in the form of water,
wastewater and storm sewer facilities. From a tax increment ﬁnancing perspective, this zone’s redevelopment
of a blighted area was considered “traditional” tax increment ﬁnancing. Funds for a TIRZ are generated from
the property value increases to property with a TIRZ.
The City has created twenty (27) tax increment reinvestment zones. The HISD originally participated in sixteen
(16) of these zones (listed below) commonly known as:

Zone 1          Lamar Terrance                             Zone 9           South Post Oak (expired 12/31/23)
Zone 2          Midtown                                    Zone 12          City Park
Zone 3          Market Square                              Zone 13          Old Sixth Ward
Zone 4          Village Enclave (expired)                  Zone 14          Fourth Ward
Zone 5          Memorial Heights (expired)                 Zone 15          East Downtown
Zone 6          Eastside                                   Zone 16          Uptown
Zone 7          Old Spanish Trail/Almeda Corridor          Zone 18          Fifth Ward
Zone 8          Gulfgate                                   Zone 19          Upper Kirby (expired)




 2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section                                                                      94
At inception, the HISD limited its term of participation in the respective zones and participation will be ending
over the coming years.
The primary reason for the City’s request for the HISD to participate in the tax increment zones was because
the HISD’s participation is generally required in order for the zones to succeed. The long-term result of a
successful increment zone will be increased property values, which will beneﬁt all taxing entities through an
increased tax base thus perpetuating increased tax revenues. Without the zones, property values in those
areas would be much less likely to increase at the rate that has subsequently occurred.


Special Projects Fund
Fund will be utilized to account for Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) projects. These projects will be
approved by the Board of Education and funded from various sources within the Capital Renovation Fund.

Miscellaneous Funding
Proceeds from sales of capital assets, capital leases, lease revenue, and miscellaneous sources are used for
emergency capital needs approved by the school board.

Available Program Funds as of June 30, 2025
Below is a table representing the funds discussed above.




Available balances for Bond Programs that are programmatically complete are used for other school board-
approved projects.




 2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section                                                                         95
Revenue Sources for the Capital Renovation Fund
The primary source of funding for the Capital Renovation Fund is generated through the issuance of bonds
which requires prior approval by the HISD Board of Education and ultimately by Houston voters. Proceeds from
the sale of bonds along with other revenue sources are loaded directly into capital renovation reserve funds to
be immediately used for approved bond referendums and other board-approved projects. Debt Service costs
related to the sale of bonds are not accounted for in the Capital Project Fund, but in the Debt Service Fund. The
district has a separate fund set up exclusively to account for all debt service costs. Below is a chart representing
actual capital project revenues over the past ﬁve years.




    2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section                                                                         96
Expenditures for the Capital Renovation Fund
Below is a ﬁve-year historical chart representing actual expenditures in the Capital Renovation Fund by major
object. Since the majority of costs in this fund is for construction of capital items, most expenditures are under
major object 6600-Capital Outlay.




   2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section                                                                    97
Impact on General Operating Budget
In HISD, for the past several years the General Operating Budget has experienced no material impact leading
up to or during construction. The district uses three primary funds for construction and major maintenance costs
to buildings.
1. The Capital Renovation Fund - all revenue and expenditures related to the construction of new and renovated
   facilities, and for non-routine maintenance costs not associated with a bond program. The sources of funds
   were previously discussed.
2. The General Operating Fund - accounts for all routine building maintenance and operating costs such as:
   custodial and maintenance staﬃng, utilities, property insurance, maintenance and repair, and grounds.
3. The Debt Service Fund - accounts for the repayment for all debt issued by the district.

Primary Items Impacting the General Fund Budget
Typically, three primary items impact the General Fund Budget:
1. Utility Costs – The ﬁscal year 2025 had approximately $50.5 million (gas, water, electricity) of expenses.
   This is consistent with last year. The district budgets utilities based on total utility rates, historical analysis,
   expected square footage, and the district’s contracted rate to determine total expenditures. To date, our
   construction program has not signiﬁcantly aﬀected our operating expenses because HISD currently holds
   over 30,000,000 square feet within its real estate portfolio. The district square footage has not signiﬁcantly
   changed. In fact, the district is aﬀected more by swings in utility rates than the district’s construction programs.
2. Custodial / Maintenance staﬀ costs - Because HISD has been primarily renovating and replacing facilities,
   HISD has not seen signiﬁcant costs associated with construction activities. Renovations and expansions to
   a campus are generally absorbed by existing staﬀ. The district has also been closing small campuses and
   the staﬀ have been redirected to other facilities. The district solicits changes to staﬃng each year during the
   budget process to identify additional staﬃng needs due to new campuses coming online.
3. Insurance - Unlike most homeowners, HISD does not purchase insurance covering every loss. Instead, the
   district purchases a loss value for the total district. For example, the district may purchase insurance for
   losses up to $250 million. The amount aﬀorded ﬂuctuates in the market based on current or recent events.
   For example, multiple hurricanes and/or tornadoes throughout the country can cause the amount of available
   insurance to decrease. In this instance, the district may have to pay the same or more for less coverage.


Routine vs. Non-Routine Expenditures
Capital expenditures for construction, renovation, expansion and replacement are considered to be signiﬁcant,
non-routine expenditures, which encompass the majority of the expenditures in the district’s Capital Renovation
Fund. Additionally, the district plans for unexpected urgent situations such as roof or mechanical failures with
its Emergency Fund. These expenses are non-routine in nature, but this fund has been established because
historically they are inevitable. Other items that fall under non-routine expenditures are those for catastrophic
events, such as those experienced after Tropical Storm Allison, Hurricane Ike, and Hurricane Harvey due to
ﬂooding, high winds, freezing temperatures, and extended electricity outages.

Expenditures that are categorized as routine are those that deal with general facility maintenance and upkeep.
For example, routine preventative maintenance is done at all facilities to address mechanical systems and
building infrastructure, which in turn, ultimately lowers the number of work orders (i.e., maintenance requests)
requiring emergency repairs and extends the life of equipment.

Other routine programs include life-safety code compliance initiatives and asbestos projects. These are not
considered signiﬁcant but are routine in nature.

Non-Routine Expenditures
The district addresses non-routine capital projects and maintenance costs through its maintenance team. These
items are deﬁned as work needing to be addressed through future capital planning and are outside of the
normal preventative maintenance schedule. Examples of the non-routine projects include the installation of new



     2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section                                                                           98
equipment at facilities that require tradesmen (i.e., electricians or plumbers) such as adding electrical outlets for
technology equipment, painting, sidewalks, ﬂooring, changing interior locks, drainage, etc.

These high-cost, non-routine expenditures are generally handled through the district’s Pay-As-You-Go Program and
can either be planned major maintenance items or unexpected emergency repairs and maintenance.

The district plans for unexpected urgent situations with its Emergency Fund. HISD deﬁnes an emergency as anything
preventing or substantially impairing normal operations; a condition that poses an eminent threat to the health, safety,
or welfare of students; and/or has potential catastrophic ﬁnancial loss. These expenses are non-routine in nature but
this Emergency Fund has been established because history has shown they are expected due to the number and
age of facilities within the district’s portfolio.

The General Operating Fund’s unassigned fund balance is also available for major costs; however, the use of the
unassigned fund balance requires action by the Board of Education and is used as the absolute last resort. The
district generally attempts to fund from existing resources from the current year budget through reappropriation or
redirection of funds.

Routine Expenditures
The district funds the routine expenditures from the General Operating Fund in the Facilities Maintenance and
Operations (FMO). FMO operates with a staﬀ of over 1,470 full-time employees. This HISD department manages
over 1,900 buildings (approximately 600 permanent and 1,300 temporary). The FMO Leadership Teams oversee
3,600 acres of school and administrative spaces. At over 30 million square feet, FMO administers one of the largest
and most diverse portfolios of real estate assets in the U.S.

The FMO budget provides routine maintenance services in the major categories below. The FMO Department has
a total budget of approximately $86.7 million for routine maintenance and operations. This includes salary and non-
salary costs. Below are the major areas of maintenance for which FMO is responsible:

 Security systems         Locksmith                       Warranties                     Swimming pools
 (alarms, CCTV, ra-
 dios)
 Fire extinguishers       Plumbing                        Grounds care                   Radio towers
 Building automation      Environmental aﬀairs            Fencing                        Cooling towers
 Rooﬁng                   HVAC                            Pest control                   Fire alarm monitoring
 Glass                    Preventative maintenance        Custodial services             Parking lot striping
 Metal shop               Minor construction              Water treatment contracts      Maintenance schedule
                                                                                         planning
 Window units             Code compliance                 Solid waste contracts          Call center
 Electricians             Inspections                     Elevator & wheel chair         General maintenance
                                                                                         and repairs




      2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section                                                                       99
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   100
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   101
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Financial Section   102
                                     Informational Section Table of Contents
                                                                         Houston Independent School District



    Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions........................................................................................... 104
    Proposed Tax Revenue Calculation ................................................................................................. 106
    Distribution of Property Tax Rate ...................................................................................................... 108
    Schedule of Property Tax Levies and Collections ............................................................................ 109
    Analysis of Tax Burden for a Typical Homeowner ............................................................................ 110
    Total Debt Outstanding ..................................................................................................................... 111
    Principal Property Taxpayers Current Year and Nine Years Ago ...................................................... 112
    Student Enrollment Projections ........................................................................................................ 113
    State Education Funding Formula .................................................................................................... 114
    Per Pupil Expenditures ..................................................................................................................... 116
    Performance: District Administration ................................................................................................ 120
    Harris County Tax Rates................................................................................................................... 121
    Teacher Salaries ............................................................................................................................... 122
    Administrative Cost Ratios ............................................................................................................... 123
    FTE - General Funds and All Funds ................................................................................................. 125
    Performance Results: Student Achievement .................................................................................... 126
    Houston Economic/Demographic Conditions ................................................................................... 132
    School Pages School List ................................................................................................................. 136
    Contracted School or Program..........................................................................................................142
    Department Pages............................................................................................................................ 144




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                                                             103
                       Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions
                                                Houston Independent School District



Prior to beginning the budget process for the 2025-2026 school year, assumptions with respect to the level of
fund balance, sources of revenue, and an increase in expenditures, such as salaries and school allocations,
are established. These assumptions are necessary in preparing budget forecasts so that long-range planning
of resource allocations and revenue expectations can occur. These assumptions are listed below.

Fiscal Year

The Fiscal Year will run from July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2026.

Fund Balance

The General Fund Operating Undesignated Fund Balance is projected to decrease for the current ﬁscal
year 2025-2026.

Revenue

The Taxable Value of property in the district increased in 2025-2026 by 3.33 percent.
The District’s Optional Property Tax Exemptions totaling over $100 million in savings to homeowners will
continue to be approved by the School Board.
The Adopted Budget Tax Rate $0.8783
The Collection ratios will be at approximately 96.4 percent, based on favorable economic conditions. The
tax rate will be integrated into the budget development process.
Additional Sources of Funding, includes Medicaid reimbursement.
State Funding for ﬁscal year 2025-2026 will be approximately $73.23 million for the district’s per capita al-
location, and the district will receive an estimated $110.47 million through the Foundation School Program.

Expenditures

Student Enrollment projections are provided from PASA (Population and Survey Analysts) and ADA (Av-
erage Daily Attendance) is projected by the Oﬃce of Budgeting and Financial Planning based on historical
trends and the impact of state open-enrollment charter schools, home schools, etc.
Collections from the Tax Increment Funds will be designated only for capital replacement purposes. Funds
are received back according to the contractual arrangements and are placed in the district’s Capital Renova-
tion Fund where the expenditures will be recorded.




    2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                              104
   Long-Range Planning

   Three-Year Projections will be maintained to analyze the eﬀects of ﬁscal year 2025-2026 revenue and expen-
   diture decisions, which will be discussed later in this section.

   Ongoing Financial Management

   The budget process will be structured to identify programs and activities that can be reduced or eliminated with
   little or no impact on business operations or teaching and learning.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                              105
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   106
Tax Revenue
The primary source of local funding for the school district remains ad valorem taxes levied against the local
tax base. The appraisal process is conducted by the Harris County Appraisal District (HCAD). The district
received the preliminary and certiﬁed taxable value information from the Harris County Appraisal District
(HCAD) in May and in August respectively.
Property taxes are calculated on net taxable value after allowable exemptions and freeze tax ceilings are
subtracted from assessed values. Taxes are calculated on each $100 of net taxable value. Tax levy of the
freeze portion is calculated by HCAD and provided to the district. This amount is added to current net taxable
levy to arrive at the total levy. Revenues for current property taxes are based on a 96.4 percent collection
rate. On January 1st of each year the property values are rendered for appraisal. The appraisal process is
conducted by HCAD. HCAD is scheduled to submit preliminary values to the school district by May 1st. The
district receives certiﬁed values on or before August 16th.
The 2025-2026 Proposed Tax Revenue Calculations table represents the historical net taxable value, the cur-
rent ﬁscal year, and future forecasts. Over the last ﬁve years, the district’s taxable value growth has averaged
3.60 percent. The largest growth was in 2023 when the certiﬁed taxable value increased 11.37 percent and
the smallest was in 2025 when the taxable property value increased by only 3.59 percent. The net taxable
property value for HISD in ﬁscal year 2025 will increase by $1.78 billion or 3.59 percent over the ﬁscal year
2025. Future year forecasts through ﬁscal year 2028 indicate property tax values will continue to increase
with an annual growth rate of approximately 1 percent.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                107
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   108
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   109
The bar chart above reﬂects the average market value and the average tax amount due by an HISD homeowner as
a percent of 1999 values. The 2026 average market value of a home in HISD is 507 percent of the 1999 value, while
the amount of taxes due from the average homeowner is 341 percent of the 1999 value.




        2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                              110
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   111
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   112
                           Student Enrollment Projections
                                                        Houston Independent School District



    Student enrollment projections include both the number and the type of students that are anticipated to enroll for
    the coming school year. HISD must know how many students will be enrolled before any meaningful planning
    can begin. Enrollment projections drive many of the revenue and expenditure components of annual operat-
    ing, multiyear program, and construction budgets. At the most basic level, enrollment projections determine the
    number of buildings, classrooms, and faculty that the district needs. Enrollment projections also determine the
    functions of the district’s educational programs. The types of individuals that comprise the student population
    are important in planning educational programs. The projection of student enrollment is important for both the
    next ﬁscal year and subsequent ﬁscal years because time frames for educational programs, as well as capital
    building and consolidation programs, are frequently multi-year.

    Factors Inﬂuencing HISD Enrollment Projections

    Recent internal policy changes, local and national economic trends, immigration/emigration patterns, and
    increased competition from charter schools, private schools, and home schooling have raised the enrollment
    projection process to a new level of complexity. The cohort survival methods (historical and linear) of project-
    ing student enrollment have been the most successful methods to date. These methods currently predict large
    changes in enrollment, but the district has seen smaller actual changes and therefore, has a linear trend ap-
    proach. We are now making educated adjustments to the enrollment predictions generated by using a 4-year
    linear method. One factor considered in these adjustments is the number of charter schools operating within
    and near HISD boundaries. The recent expansion of private school facilities in the area and an estimate of the
    impact of increased home schooling are other factors used to adjust the enrollment projections.

    To over project the number of students means that unnecessary teachers will be hired and maintained on the
    payroll due to contractual obligations. An under projection means that a campus will not have enough teach-
    ers for its students, and the principal and staﬀ will struggle to ﬁnd qualiﬁed staﬀ long after most teachers have
    already solidiﬁed their job plans. Sometimes, enrollment projections involve determining which is the lesser of
    these two “evils”. The district has nearly 179,592 students in 2026. Therefore, in spite of the increasing factors
    that inﬂuence the district’s student population, the district is conﬁdent that reasonably accurate enrollment pro-
    jections can be maintained.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                               113
                      State Education Funding Formula
                                                    Houston Independent School District



State and Local Sources

School districts in Texas generate public school formula revenue in several ways. The Foundation School Pro-
gram (FSP) is the mechanism through which most revenue used to fund public education in Texas ﬂows from
the state to local districts. The statutory goals of the FSP are to guarantee that each school district in the state
has adequate resources to provide a basic instructional program. School district entitlements are determined
through a series of formulas based on the types of students in the district, the size of the district, and the dis-
trict’s taxable property value and tax rate. The FSP consists of two components: a maintenance and operations
(M&O) funding component and a facilities component. Within the FSP, Tier I determines the bulk of a district’s
entitlement, while Tier II allows school districts to generate supplemental funding for enrichment at the discre-
tion of the district.

A district’s Tier I entitlement is calculated using a basic allotment amount multiplied by the number of students in
average daily attendance (ADA) and additional weighted allotments called weighted average daily attendance
(WADA). Districts receive this entitlement through state aid and local property tax revenues. In 2025-2026, the
basic allotment amount generated by each student will be $6,215.

For 2025-2026, the local share of Tier 1 was budgeted at a tax rate of $0.6322 multiplied by the current year
Comptroller value divided by 100. The district also budgeted for $0.050 Tier II “Golden Pennies” and $0.0294
Teir I Disaster Pennies with a total Maintenance and Operations tax rate $0.7116.

Tax Compression

At the time of budget adoption, it was projected that the tax year 2025 adopted M&O rate would be compressed
to $0.6322 and prescribed as the district’s Tier 1 M&O tax rate.

Property values in Texas school districts play a crucial role in determining the local and state shares of Tier
I funding. A school district’s share, the local fund assignment (LFA), is determined by applying the district’s
compressed M&O tax rate ($0.6322) to the district’s assigned taxable property value, determined by the State
Comptroller Oﬃce, and dividing by 100. The district’s share is then subtracted from the total cost to determine
the state’s share. As property values increase, school districts pay a larger portion of the total cost, and the state
portion of the cost decreases. In recent years, signiﬁcant increases in HISD property tax rolls have outpaced
student enrollment growth, reducing the state’s share of Tier I funding.

The HISD Board of Managers adopted a tax rate of $0.8783 per $100 of taxable value for tax year 2025 on
October 15, 2025. This rate includes a maintenance and operations (M&O) component of $0.7116, and a debt
service (I&S) component of $0.1667 cents. The facilities funding component of the FSP provides school districts
with assistance for debt service related to school facilities by equalizing interest and the interest and sinking
fund (I&S) tax eﬀort. The district’s I&S tax rate provides funds for payments on the debt that ﬁnances a district’s
facilities. The state uses this tax rate to calculate Instructional Facilities Allotments and Existing Debt Allot-
ments. However, based on local property values, HISD does not currently qualify to receive either allotment.

School districts also receive an allotment from the Available School Fund (ASF), which is made up of money set
aside by the state from current or annual revenues for the support of the public school system. Revenue for the
ASF is generated by earnings from the Permanent School Fund, an endowed fund established by the Legisla-
ture for the beneﬁt of public schools, and motor fuel tax revenue. Funds from the ASF are distributed on a per-
student basis, $465 in 2025-2026. In 2025-2026, HISD will generate an estimated $73.2 million from the ASF.




     2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                      114
  Finally, school districts receive revenue through other programs, including supplemental Tax Increment Financ-
  ing (TIF) payments and a staﬀ allotment. TIF is a tool for ﬁnancing public improvements by freezing assessed
  property values for a speciﬁed period within a Tax Increment Reinvestment Zones (TIRZ). Municipalities then
  initiate economic development projects within the TIRZ and use any annual incremental tax revenues above
  the frozen base to ﬁnance the developments. Until 1999, school districts could opt to contribute tax increment
  revenue to a TIF, reducing the taxable property reported to the state. In return, the state would hold the district
  harmless for resulting foregone revenue. However, in 1999 the Legislature eliminated the school districts’
  ability to achieve a reduction in taxable property value resulting from a TIRZ established after September 1,
  1999, eliminating the hold harmless provision for new TIRZ. The district expects a supplemental TIF payment
  of approximately $16.7 million.

  The total estimated state aid from other programs is $84.8 million.

  Overall, HISD is projecting a total of $1.71 billion in public school formula revenue in ﬁscal year 2026. Of this
  revenue, an estimated $183.7 million is from state aid, and $1.53 billion is from local property tax revenue.

  See the chart below for more detail.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                 115
Per Pupil Expenditures

HISD per-pupil expenditures
are calculated according to
the convention established by
the Texas Education Agency.
The TEA per pupil calculation
uses the sum of all operating
expenditures (which do not
include debt service, capital
outlay, or community services)
divided by the total number of
students.

Cost-per-pupil measures oﬀer
a more intuitive view of the
cost of educating students and
provide a basis for comparison
of the costs of education with prior years, other local districts, other Texas districts, and state averages. Also,
the larger increases in per pupil expenditures generally coincide with the biennial appropriations by the state
legislature. As seen in the tables, HISD has maintained competitive cost-per-pupil averages in spite of having
a student populations in need of comparatively greater services and support.

It is important to note that the school funding formula in Texas equalizes funding to compensate school
districts for diﬀerences in student population (numbers of students served in special programs, such as Special
Education and Bilingual/ESL Education) as well as the cost of education in a particular area of the state, so
that diﬀerences in spending per pupil reﬂect the needs of the student body rather than the ability of a district
to generate local revenue.




 2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                       116
    Expenditures for Diﬀerent Types of Pupils
    The cost of educating diﬀerent categories of pupils varies. For example, Special Education, Bilingual and
    English-as-a-Second-Language (ESL), Career and Technology, and Gifted and Talented programs all require
    additional funding to serve the students participating in them. The chart illustrates the average costs associated
    with some of these programs. These ﬁgures are based on data from the 2023-2024 school year and represent
    an estimate of the actual costs which should be added to the regular education per student cost of $6,309
    to derive total costs for each student category. It is important to note that these are average expenditures;
    diﬀerences among students within the same category can lead to wide variation in expenditures. As in the
    case of Special Education, some children spend very little time outside the regular classroom while others
    require intensive medical and instructional attention from Special Education teachers and staﬀ.




    A Comparison of Per Pupil Expenditures

    HISD’s per pupil expenditures were below the state average for selected large school districts (over 50,000
    students). A signiﬁcant portion of total expenditures were devoted to at-risk and bilingual programs because
    of the large numbers of students requiring these services. Austin, Aldine, and Dallas show the three largest
    amounts of funds expended for educating at-risk students; Fort Bend, Austin, and Dallas show the largest
    amounts of funds expended for educating bilingual students.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                  117
        How was the $9,541 for each pupil spent?
Another way to analyze expenditures is to show how the operating budget aﬀects a typical student. For the
2023-2024 school year, the General Fund operating budget of $1,951,530,120 (as deﬁned by the Texas Educa-
tion Agency) funded 183,603 students at an average cost of $9,541 per pupil. The chart below shows how the
diﬀerent functions contribute to the overall cost of educating each student.




Source: TEA, 2023-2024 Actual Financial Data Report


    2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                           118
     HISD Nutrition Services

     The Nutrition Services Fund is used to account for the ﬁnancial operations of the breakfast, lunch, snack, and
     dinner programs oﬀered and managed through the district’s own Nutrition Services Department. The district
     currently operates nearly 300 school cafeterias and satellite programs serving an average of over 186,000
     meals a day. These meals fuel our students’ academic performance and inspire the development of life-long
     dietary health and wellness behaviors. HISD Nutrition Services oﬀers a choice of healthy meals to students
     each school day. All meals that are served meet nutrition standards as established by the U.S. Department of
     Agriculture. The chart below reﬂects the meal pricing history for the last four years, as well as the current year.




         Source: HISD Nutrition Services




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                   119
                       Performance: District Administration
                                                     Houston Independent School District



The Houston Independent School District is continuing to examine key performance ratios and statistics to
ensure that overall administration is eﬃcient and eﬀective. One important indicator used is the percentage of
expenditures going to diﬀerent categories of operations. Analysis of these ratios help administrators ensure that
central administration expenditures are being held at an acceptably low level and that instructional expenditures,
as a share of total expenditures, remain as large as possible.

Percentage of Total Expenditures Allocated for Diﬀerent Operational Areas

Six categories of expenditures have been deﬁned by TEA’s Division of Performance Reporting for use in
determining the overall direction of district spending. Instructional Expenditures includes all activities dealing
with the instruction of pupils, including teacher salaries and computer-aided instruction. Central Administration
includes expenditures for the general administration of the district, instructional leadership, and data processing
and technology services. School Leadership includes expenditures for administrative and operational expenses
for campuses in the district. Plant Services contains the expenditures for physical and plant maintenance for all
facilities in the district as well as security and monitoring services. Other Operations includes such outlays as
student support services (counselors, nurses, etc.), pupil transportation, food services, co-curricular activities,
and curriculum and staﬀ development. Non-Operations expenditures include capital outlay expenditures, the
capital projects fund, debt service expenses, and community service expenditures. The following table shows
trends for HISD in these areas over the past ten years.

As depicted in the table, central administration expenditures have been successfully lowered while the level of
instructional expenditures has remained fairly constant. Compared with other districts in Texas, expenditures
for Central Administration and other operations are relatively low. Since 2015, Instructional expenditures have
decreased 6 percentage points, Central Administration has increased by 0.1 percentage points, School Leadership
no change percentage points, Plant Services have decreased 3 percentage points, Other Operations have
increased by 8 percentage points, and Other Non-Operations have increased by 0.5 percentage point.




HISD Tax Rate and Teacher Salaries

Two extremely important groups that inﬂuence the reputation and operations of the district are the local taxpayers
and district teachers. A lack of satisfaction among these groups can have a very negative eﬀect on the ability of
the district to carry out its mission.

The chart on the following page compares the approved HISD tax rate with other Harris County school districts.
HISD not only has one of the lowest tax rates by a signiﬁcant margin, but also oﬀers a 20 percent optional
homestead exemption that many area districts do not oﬀer, lowering the HISD’s eﬀective tax rate even further.
Even with possible increases in the tax rate, which may prove necessary due to potential reductions in state
funding, HISD’s rate will likely remain among the lowest in the region.




    2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                    120
   Teacher Salaries

   Teacher salaries are an important performance indicator since the ability to provide competitive salaries reﬂects
   the ability of the district to attract and retain qualiﬁed, successful teachers. Adequate salaries are a prime
   component of job satisfaction for teachers and other employees. Lower salaries can result in low morale and
   high turnover leading to lower student performance and increased training and recruitment expenses. The
   table below compares HISD salaries with those of other large Texas school districts while the table on the next
   page compares HISD to other Houston-area school districts.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                 121
Tax Rates and Salaries vs. Inﬂation

Another veriﬁcation of the eﬀectiveness of tax rate and salary policy is to compare both with the rate of inﬂation
over a speciﬁed period of time. Tax-rate and salary increases that either out pace or fail to keep up with the rate
of inﬂation, respectively, do not satisfy the groups involved. The following chart compares the Houston-area
rate of inﬂation with the increases of each item from 2000 to 2025. The chart shows that the Houston area
total inﬂation was 81 percent (about 3 percent average per year), while the tax rate decreased by 40 percent,
and teacher salaries increased 75 percent over the same period.




Administrative Cost Ratio

The administrative cost ratio is the ratio of administrative costs (central administration) to instructional costs
(related to direct classroom instruction and student services). This ratio is legally deﬁned and calculated annually
by the Texas Education Agency (TEA) (as per Senate Bill 1). As illustrated on the next page, the administrative
cost ratio has increased from 4 percent in 2017 to an estimated 10 percent for 2026.




      2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                   122
   Comparison of administrative cost ratios among the seven largest Texas districts reveals that HISD continues
   to maintain a competitive position among these seven large districts. Combined with the information from the
   previous chart, the data conﬁrms that HISD is successful in maintaining and promoting eﬃcient operations.
   Monitoring and improving this ratio will continue to be a district priority in the future. However, SB 900 enacted
   during the 78th Texas Legislature’s Regular Session in 2003 repealed Section 42.201 of the Texas Education
   Code (TEC) relating to administrative cost ratios. The bill continued the statute only for the limited purpose of
   recovering amounts from districts that meet the criteria for excess administrative costs for 2002-2003. For 2003-
   2004 and all future years the administrative cost ratio has become a part of the District’s Financial Accountability
   Rating issued by TEA each year under School FIRST, Financial Accountability Rating System of Texas. Historical
   information from 1995-2002 will continue to be maintained at TEA’s website for reference purposes.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                  123
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   124
                  FTE - General Funds and All Funds
                                                 Houston Independent School District




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                         125
                      Performance Results: Student Achievement
                                                  Houston Independent School District



The Houston Independent School District regularly evaluates student performance in many areas in order to
ensure that Houston children achieve the best educational possible. Additionally, student achievement results
are used by district staﬀ to evaluate diﬀerent educational initiatives and to ensure that funds are expended
in the most eﬃcient and eﬀective ways possible. Student achievement reports to students, parents, and the
community in general are provided regularly. As well as detailed reports submitted to the Texas Education
Agency (TEA).

State of Texas Assessments of Academic Readiness (STAAR)

Standardized assessment in Texas have changed over the last decade. In 2007, the State Senate in Texas
enacted Senate Bill 1031, calling for the development of an end-of-course assessment (EOC), now referred
to as State of Texas Assessment of Academic Readiness (STAAR) for secondary-level courses in: Algebra
I and II, Geometry, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, English I, II and III, World Geography, World History, and
U.S. History. STAAR replaced the Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills (TAKS) program in 2012. The
STAAR program for grades 3–8 assessed the same grades and subjects as were assessed on TAKS. For
high school, general subject-area TAKS tests were replaced with twelve STAAR EOC assessments. STAAR
EOC assessments are available for Algebra I, Geometry, Algebra II, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, English I,
English II, English III, World Geography, World History, and U.S. History. TEA, in collaboration with the Texas
Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) and Texas educators, developed this new assessment system
in response to requirements set forth by the 80th and 81st Texas Legislatures. This new system focuses on
increasing post-secondary readiness of graduating high school students and helps to ensure Texas students
are competitive with other students both nationally and internationally. The 83rd Legislature reduced the num-
ber of EOC assessments to ﬁve to include Algebra I, English I, English II, Biology, and U.S. History in House
Bill 5.

In grades 3–8, students are tested in mathematics and reading. Students are also tested in writing for grades
4 and 7, science in grades 5 and 8, and social studies in grade 8. Student performance is categorized into
three levels, based on assessment on cut scores. For the general STAAR assessments, STAAR Modiﬁed, and
STAAR L, the labels for the performance categories are Level III: Advanced Academic Performance, Level II:
Satisfactory Academic Performance, and Level I: Unsatisfactory Academic Performance. These performance
level categories were set and applied in the fall of 2012.

HISD performance by subject and grade level for 2019-2022 is shown in the following table, no data is available
for 2020 due to COVID-19. Given the impact of COVID-19, Governor Greg Abbott is used his statutory authority
as the governor of Texas under Texas Government Code, §418.016 to suspend annual academic assessment
requirements for the 2019–2020 school year.




     2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                               126
 Student Performance

 In 2013, the 83rd Texas Legislature passed House Bill 5, eliminating the state’s cumulative score requirement
 for graduation. House Bill 5 also reduced the number of EOC assessments to 5; Algebra I, English I, English II,
 Biology, and U.S. History. The purpose of this report is to provide an overview of the results from the spring 2024
 administration of the EOC in accordance with the rules and policies adopted by the Texas Education Administra-
 tion (TEA) to implement Senate Bill 1032 all EOC assessments and Level I Minimum Academic Performance
 standards are reported.

 Due to the eﬀect of COVID-19 global pandemic, HISD student performance has been signiﬁcantly impacted
 across all subjects. In response to lagging performance, HISD has invested signiﬁcantly in multiple initiatives to
 address learning loss due to COVID-19, which involves research-based improvement strategies to help students
 get back on track.

 The tables shown on the next page reﬂect HISD percentage performance for spring 2024 EOC tests and 2024
 STAAR passing rates for all grades in large Texas districts.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                               127
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   128
  The following chart reﬂects the number of students enrolled in the largest school districts in Texas by demo-
  graphic group.




  Dropout Rate

  The chart below reﬂects graduation data among various demographic groups. To increase high school gradrua-
  tion across all groups, HISD has implemented several initiatives. Each year the district conducts a “Grads Within
  Reach Walk” to encourage students to return to school and ﬁnish high school. In addition to this annual event,
  district dropout prevention caseworkers work year-round to keep students in school or get them back to class.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                              129
The graph below compares various post-secondary indicators, including graduation rates and college-readiness
assessments. HISD’s dropout rate has fallen and the district’s graduation rate has risen, as reﬂected in the graph
below. The graph also reports the percent of 9-12 grade students who complete a college admissions assessment,
either the SAT or ACT. HISD tested 88 percent of eligible students in 2024.


               Graduation and Dropout Rates and College Admissions Tested




Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT I) and American College Test (ACT)

The SAT I and ACT exams are given as entrance examinations to college-bound students. The following table
illustrates four key statistics regarding these exams for the latest periods available.




     2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                              130
 Comparison with the state average and other similar districts reveals HISD students performed comparatively
 well to the state average. In the 2023-2024 school year, HISD educated 17 percent more economically
 disadvantaged students and 14 percent more Bilingual/ESL students than the state average. HISD students
 achievement is commendable. A chart reﬂecting these trends can be found below.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                             131
                      Houston Economic/Demographic Conditions
                                                          Houston Independent School District



The Houston Independent School District exists in the heart of the Houston metropolitan area, and the fortunes
and trends of the entire area directly impact the day-to-day operations and the future of the district. This section
represents a view of the recent growth and diversiﬁcation of the Houston economy, including selected statistics
and key indicators, and projections for the future.

Overview and Economic Indicators

Houston, the fourth largest and most diverse city in the United States, is a dynamic world-class city. Houston is
a leader in numerous industries, including manufacturing, healthcare services, aeronautics, transportation, and
energy. In addition to great businesses, the city has professional sports, ﬁrst-class museums and theatres, and
an exquisite restaurant scene. Houston is known for oil, NASA, urban sprawl and business friendly policies.
Forbes’ once named the Bayou City the 4th Coolest City in America and ranked Houston number 15 on the list
of best big cities with business and career growth jobs as the city hummed through the recession and enjoyed
job growth while ranking number 1 for manufacturing job opportunities.

Houston has produced a globally competitive, vibrant, free market urban economy and abundant opportunities
for a diverse citizenry. While the source of the city’s wealth was once based on natural resources, its future
rests on human resources. Currently, Houston’s business economy is diversifying into various industries, such
as technology, medical research, health care, international trade, professional services and higher education.

The Houston Galveston Area Council (H-GAC) consists of Brazoria, Chambers, Fort Bend, Galveston, Harris,
Liberty, Montgomery and Waller Counties. With an estimated population of 7.6 million in 2025, Houston is ranked
the fourth most populous city in the United States, and the largest in the South and Southwest regions of the
U.S. The downtown area has a 7-mile, 20-feet wide underground air-conditioned tunnel system that connects
81 buildings, including hotels and a shopping mall. Houston is home to the Texas Medical Center, the largest
medical care and research facilities in the world. The Port of Houston is the second largest port in the United
States in total tonnage and ﬁrst in foreign waterborne commerce. Houston is also the headquarters not only for
U.S. manned space ﬂights but also major oil corporations and many other large high-tech ﬁrms.

Since the mid-1990’s, downtown Houston has transformed into a vibrant culmination of businesses, entertain-
ment and residences. Downtown is the newest ‘place to be’ with a light rail, outdoor dinning, and street perfor-
mances. It is a real hub where the light rail takes riders from downtown to NRG Stadium/Park, with everything
from outdoor dining to laser light shows and street performers. Downtown attractions include Bayou Place, a
150,000 square-feet retail and entertainment center; Daikin Park, a state-of-the art ballpark with a retractable
roof and home to the Houston Astros; the Toyota Center, home to the Houston Rockets; the BBVA Compass
Stadium, home to the Houston Dynamo Soccer Team; the George R. Brown Convention Center, used for annual
business meetings, conferences, exhibits, and shows; Market Square Historic District with its historical buildings/
markers, restaurants/clubs, and residential units; the Theater District, which contains in total 12,948 seats for
live performances and 1,480 movie seats; Chase Tower, one of the world’s tallest buildings; and the Downtown
Aquarium, a $38 million restaurant and entertainment facility.

Other Houston attractions include the annual Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo, the largest in the world; the
NRG Stadium, home to the Houston Texans football team; Space Center Houston; Schlitterbahn Waterpark;
SplashTown Waterpark; the Houston Zoo; the Museum District; Sam Houston Race Park; San Jacinto Battle-
ground State Historical Park; Discovery Green; Kemah Boardwalk; and Moody Gardens.




    2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                     132
  Economic Highlights

  The Houston economy is projected to grow over the next ﬁve years as seen below in the economic indicator
  forecast.




  Services- The service still dominates local job growth, primarily due to the shift of jobs to the business services.
  Some of the largest employers in the service sector is the Texas Medical Center, the largest medical city in the
  world. As of 2025, the Texas Medical Center has provided access to over 60 plus institutions. The sector employs
  435,220 individuals and serves patients from both domestic and international markets. HISD is also a major
  employer, with 24,000 employees, including over 7,000 teachers. Houston also boasts more than 40 colleges,
  universities, and institutions that oﬀer higher education options to suit all interests.

  Trade–Houston’s trade is largely tied to the Port of Houston and the airport system. The Port of Houston is ranked
  ﬁrst in the U.S. in foreign tonnage, ﬁrst in import tonnage, third in export tonnage, second in total tonnage, and
  sixth in world-wide total tonnage. Houston’s top trading partners in terms of combined imports and exports by
  tonnage are Mexico, Venezuela, Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Germany, Brazil, and the United Kingdom. Houston’s
  airport system is the fourth largest in the United States and the sixth largest in the world.

  Cultural–Houston has much to oﬀer in the areas of art, music, dance, museums, and theatre. The city has sev-
  eral venues to showcase various talents, exhibits and shows such as the Wortham Theater Center, Jesse H.
  Jones Hall for the Arts, The Alley Theatre, Hobby Center for the Performing Arts, Verizon Wireless Theater, Miller
  Outdoor Theatre, Cynthia Woods Mitchell Pavilion, Houston Symphony, Houston Grand Opera, Alley Theatre,
  Theater Under the Stars, Ensemble Theatre, Stages Repertory Theatre, Main Street Theater and the Houston
  Ballet. Some of the numerous museums include the Art Car Museum, the Health Museum, the Museum of Fine
  Arts-Houston, the Contemporary Arts Museum-Houston, the Houston Museum of Natural Science, San Jacinto
  Museum of History, Buﬀalo Soldiers National Museum, Children’s Museum of Houston, Holocaust Museum-
  Houston, and Houston Fire Museum.

  Transportation–The Houston Airport System (HAS) is comprised of three airports: Bush Intercontinental Airport,
  Hobby Airport and Ellington Airport. In 2025, HAS served over 62.5 million passengers. The Metropolitan Transit
  Authority of Harris County (METRO) operates the bus and light rail system.

  Outdoor Recreation– The Houston Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA) has the largest county park in the U.S.
  –George Bush Park; the region also contains the third-largest municipal park in the U.S. –Cullen Park. Hermann
  Park, near Houston’s city center, is among the top dozen most visited parks in the U.S. according to the Trust
  for Public Land’s (TPL) 2014 Report. TPL 2020 ParkScore ranks the City of Houston at 78 nationwide. Houston
  has 627 parks covering 52,912 acres, which represents 12 percent of Houston’s city land area.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                  133
Demographics

Houston is a multilingual and multicultural city, home to thousands of refugees, immigrants and expatriate
workers from all over the world. Communities of foreign-born residents — Arab, Chinese, Dutch, English,
Ethiopian, Indian, Japanese, Mexican, Nigerian, Pakistani, Polish, Russian, Salvadoran, and Vietnamese, to
name a few, have established a rich blend of educational, cultural, social, and business support organizations.




The city of Houston is the fourth-most populous city in the United States, with a population of 2.3 million
at the 2020 census. The Greater Houston metropolitan area, at 7.8 million residents.

Houston is growing at a strong pace, with 43,217 new residents added last year bringing the city’s popula-
tion to a record 2,390,125 people. Since 2022, Houston has experienced robust growth.

A number of factors have spurred Houston’s recent population growth:
• Economic Growth: Houston’s robust economy, with industries such as energy, healthcare, aero-
    space, and technology, has attracted a diverse range of individuals seeking job opportunities.
• Aﬀordable Cost of Living: Houston’s low cost of living compared to other major U.S. cities, com-
    bined with the city’s reputation as a business.
• Infrastructure and Job Opportunities: The Texas Medical Center and the oil and gas sector are
    signiﬁcant employment hubs, contributing to the city’s economic growth and attracting new resi-
    dents.




   2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                 134
The following tables illustrate Houston’s population for current and future years. The last table
compares HISD’s enrollment to Houston’s H-GAC population.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                      135
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   136
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   137
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   138
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   139
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   140
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   141
The District does not fund these schools and programs in the same way that it funds other HISD schools.
Since they use their own employees and resources to provide services, neither personnel information
nor detailed budgets are provided in this document. The total contracted amount for each school or pro-
gram is accounted for in the instructional contracted services line in the budget. This amount is based on
the anticipated number of students served daily by the contracting entity.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                               142
                                           Districtwide Services
                                                Description

The District-wide School Services budget is funded centrally, but ultimately has direct beneﬁt to students and
schools. These are programs and services which all schools or groups of schools receive during the year, and
they are provided at no cost to the school's individual budget. Because the services are being oﬀered district-
wide, they reﬂect the diverse needs and interests among the students and staﬀ. For example, programs include
the district's bilingual stipends, critical shortage stipends, professional development stipends, other campus sti-
pends and incentives paid for by the district, long-term substitutes, and armored car services. Also included in
this budget is the district's long-range technology plan. The technology plan is designed to address the district's
technology infrastructure initiative which will continue to increase access to electronic communication networks
between schools and departments and improve training for all staﬀ and students in the most up-todate instruc-
tional and administrative computer applications.




  2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                143
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   144
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   145
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   146
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   147
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   148
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   149
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   150
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   151
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   152
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   153
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   154
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   155
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   156
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   157
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   158
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   159
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   160
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   161
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   162
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   163
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   164
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   165
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   166
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   167
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   168
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   169
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   170
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   171
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   172
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   173
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   174
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   175
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   176
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   177
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   178
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   179
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   180
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   181
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section   182
                        Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
                                                 Houston Independent School District




 ACRONYMNS

  AASA                   American Association of School Administrators
  ABA                    Adjusted Basic Allotment
  ACP                    Alternative Certiﬁcation Programs
  ACT                    American College Test
  ADA                    Average Daily Attendance
  ADA                    Americans With Disabilities Act
  A/E                    Architect and Engineer Firm
  AEIS                   Academic Excellence Indicator System
  AEP                    Alternative Education Programs
  AP                     Advanced Placement (Courses and Exams)
  APA                    American Psychological Association
  ARD/IED                Admission, Review, and Dismissal/Individual Education Program
  ARRA                   American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
  ASBO                   Association of School Business Oﬃcials International
  ASF                    Available School Fund
  ASPIRE                 Accelerating Student Progress, Increasing Results & Expectations
  ASATR                  Additional State Aid for Tax Reduction
  ATM                    Ascending to Men
  ATV                    Average Taxable Value
  AVID                   Advancement Via Individual Determination
  AYP                    Adequate Yearly Progress
  ACFR                   Annual Comprehensive Financial Report
  CACFP                  Child and Adult Care Food Program
  CATE                   Career and Technology Education
  CCMR                   College Career or Military Readiness
  CEI                    Cost of Education Index
  CEP                    Community Eligibility Provision
  CER                    Certiﬁcation Examination Reimbursement
  CFS                    Construction and Facilities Services




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                              183
  CGCS                   Council of the Great City Schools
  CMAR                   Construction Manager at Risk
  CM-PAs                 Construction Manager/Program Administrators
  COVID-19               Coronavirus Disease 2019
  CPI                    Consumer Price Index
  CSH                    Coordinated School Health
  CSP                    Competitive Sealed Proposal and Bidding
  CTE                    Career and Technical Education
  CUBE                   Council of Urban Boards of Education
  DAC                    District Advisory Committee
  DAEP                   Disciplinary Alternative Education Program
  E.E.O.C                Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
  ELA                    English Language Arts
  ELL                    English Language Learners
  EOC                    End of Course
  ESC                    Education Service Center
  ESEA                   Elementary and Secondary Education Act
  ESL                    English as a Second Language
  ESSA                   Every Student Succeeds Act
  EWL                    Equalized Wealth Level
  FAFSA                  Free Application for Federal Student Aid
  FFA                    Future Farmers of America
  FIRST                  Financial Integrity Rating System of Texas
  FMO                    Facilities Maintenance and Operations
  FS                     Facility Services
  FSP                    Foundation School Program
  FTE                    Full Time Equivalent
  G/T                    Gifted and Talented
  GAAP                   Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
  GASB                   Governmental Accounting Standards Board
  GBP                    Group Beneﬁts Program
  GFOA                   Government Finance Oﬃcers Association
  GIST                   Generating Interaction between Schemata and Text
  HAS                    Houston Airport System
  HB3                    House Bill 3
  HCA                    Human Capital Accountability
  HCAD                   Harris County Appraisal District
  HERC                   Houston Education Research Consortium
  H-GAC                  Houston Galveston Area Council
  HISD-PFC               Houston Independent School District Public Facility Corporation



2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                             184
  HMW                     Hattie Mae White
  HUDL                    Houston Urban Debate League
  HVAC                    Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning
  IB                      The International Baccalaureate Program
  IBMYP                   IB Middle Years Program
  IDEA - Special          The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act
  Education
  IEP                     Individualized Education Programs
  I&S                     Interest & Sinking
  IP                      Instructional Practice
  IR                      Improvement Required
  ISS                     In School Suspension
  JJAEP                   Juvenile Justice Alternative Education Program
  JROTC                   Junior Reserve Oﬃcer’s Training Corps
  KPI                     Key Performance Indicator
  LEP                     Limited English Proﬁciency
  LFA                     Local Fund Assignment
  LOTE                    Languages Other Than English
  M/WBE                   Minority and Women-owned Business Enterprise
  M&O (Rate)              Maintenance and Operating Rate
  MALDEF                  Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund
  MAS                     Miles Ahead Scholars
  MBA                     Meritorious Budget Award
  MCR                     Maximum Compressed Tax Rate
  MEP                     Mechanical, Electrical, and Plumbing
  MOE                     Maintenance of Eﬀort
  MRT                     Maintenance Response Team
  MSA                     Metropolitan Statistical Areas
  MTN                     Maintenance Tax Notes
  MTSS                    Multi-Tiered Systems of Support
  NAACP                   National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
  NAEP                    National Assessment of Educational Progress
  NASA                    National Aeronautics and Space Administration
  NCAA                    National Collegiate Athletic Association
  NCCER                   National Center for Construction Education and Research
  NCEA                    National Center for Educational Achievement
  NCES                    National Center for Education Statistics




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                         185
  NCLB                   No Child Left Behind
  NES                    New Education System
  NIFA                   New Instructional Facilities Allotment
  NMSQT                  National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test
  NOGA                   Notice of Grant Award
  NPR                    National Percentile Ranking
  NS                     Nutritional Service
  NSLP                   National School Lunch Program
  NWEA MAP               Northwest Evaluation Association Measures of Academic Progress
  NYSTP                  New York State Testing Program
  OEC                    Outdoor Education Center
  OPEB                   Other Post- Employment Beneﬁt Plans
  OSES                   Oﬃce of Special Education Services
  OSP                    Oﬃcial SAT Practice
  OSS                    Out of School Suspension
  P-TECH                 Pathways in Technology
  PBIS                   Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports
  PE                     Professional Expectations
  PEIMS                  Public Education Information Management System
  PET                    PID Enrollment Tracking
  PFC                    Public Facility Corporation
  PID                    Person Identiﬁcation Database
  PM/PMs                 Program Management Firms
  POS                    Point of Sale
  PSAT                   Preliminary Scholastic Aptitude Test
  PSF                    Permanent School Fund
  PTA/PTO                Parent Teacher Association/ Organization
  PYP                    Primary Years Program
  ROTC                   Reserve Oﬃcers Training Corps
  RTI                    Response to Intervention
  SAP                    Systems Applications and Products
  SAT                    Scholastic Assessment Test
  SBDM                   Site Based Decision Making
  SBEC                   State Board for Educator Certiﬁcation
  SCE                    State Compensatory Education
  SBP                    School Breakfast Program
  SDMC                   Shared Decision-Making Committee
  SFSF                   State Fiscal Stabilization Funds
  SFSP                   Summer Food Service Program
  SI                     Sheltered Instruction



2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                            186
  SLA                    School Leadership Academy
  SP                     Student Performance
  SRA                    Science Research Associates
  SRHP                   State Retiree Health Plan
  SRW                    Strategic Reading and Writing Lessons
  STAAR                  State of Texas Assessments of Academic Readiness
  STEM                   Science Technology Engineering Math
  SUS                    Separate Unique School
  SWAS                   School Within A School
  T.A.V.                 Taxable Assessed Valuation
  TADS                   Teacher Appraisal and Development System
  TAC                    Texas Administrative Code
  TAKS                   Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills
  TAPR                   Texas Academic Performance Report
  TASA                   Texas Association of School Administrators
  TASB                   Texas Association of School Boards
  TASFA                  Texas Application for State Financial Aid
  TDS                    Teacher Development Specialists
  TEA                    Texas Education Agency
  TEC                    Texas Education Code
  TEKS                   Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills
  THECB                  Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
  TIF                    Tax Increment Financing
  TIRZ                   Tax Increment Reinvestment Zones
  TNT                    Truth in Taxation
  TPL                    Trust for Public Land’s
  TRS                    Teacher’s Retirement System
  TTM                    Time and Task Management
  TXVSN                  Texas Virtual School Network
  UH                     University of Houston
  UIL                    University Interscholastic League
  USDA                   United States Department of Agriculture
  VIPS                   Volunteers in Public Schools
  PUA                    Per Unit Allocation
  WADA                   Weighted Average Daily Attendance
  WOW                    Within Our Walls




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                              187
                       Glossary, Deﬁnitions, and Data Sources
                                                 Houston Independent School District


DEFINITIONS AND DATA SOURCES

 TERM                                                 DEFINITION
 Academic Excellence Indicator System (AEIS):         The Academic Excellence Indicator System
                                                      (AEIS) pulls together a wide range of information
                                                      on the performance of students in each school
                                                      and district in Texas every year. Also included are
                                                      prior year ﬁnancial data. This information is put
                                                      into the annual AEIS reports, which are available
                                                      each year in the fall.
 Accelerating Student Progress, Increasing Results ASPIRE (Accelerating Student Progress Increas-
 & Expectations (ASPIRE)                           ing Results & Expectation) is HISD’s educational-
                                                   improvement and performance-management
                                                   model that engages all employees in creating a
                                                   culture of excellence. ASPIRE payouts occur in
                                                   January following the previous ﬁscal year’s perfor-
                                                   mance results.
 Accreted Value                                       The value of a multi-year investment that accrues
                                                      interest but doesn't pay that interest until maturity.
 Activity Funds                                       Activity funds are deﬁned as funds consisting of
                                                      resources received and held by the school, as
                                                      trustee, to be expanded or invested in accordance
                                                      with conditions of the trust. Speciﬁcally, they are
                                                      funds accumulated from various school-approved,
                                                      fund-raising activities such as receipt of student
                                                      dues or fees, commissions, investment inter-
                                                      est and donations. All funds collected by district
                                                      personnel from students are deﬁned as Activity
                                                      Funds and must be handled through the activity
                                                      funds accounts.
 Ad Valorem Local Maintenance Tax                     The amount or rate of taxes levied for the mainte-
                                                      nance and operations of the school district.
 Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP)                       Under the accountability provisions in the No
                                                      Child Left Behind (NCLB) Act, all public school
                                                      campuses, school districts, and the state are
                                                      evaluated for Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP).
                                                      Districts, campuses, and the state are required to
                                                      meet AYP criteria on three measures: Reading/
                                                      Language Arts, Mathematics, and either Gradu-
                                                      ation Rate (for high schools and districts) or At-
                                                      tendance Rate (for elementary and middle/junior
                                                      high schools).




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                 188
  Administrative Cost Ratio                          The ratio of function 21 and 41 expenditures to
                                                     function 11, 12, 13, and 31 expenditures. It only
                                                     includes major object codes 6100 to 6400. Please
                                                     refer to the Accounting Basis under the Organi-
                                                     zational Section for deﬁnitions of each of these
                                                     components.
  Admission, Review, and Dismissal/Individual Edu-   The Admission, Review, and Dismissal is a meet-
  cation Program (ARD/IED)                           ing conducted that establishes eligibility for spe-
                                                     cial education services, and develops and reviews
                                                     the Individual Education Plan to make decisions
                                                     concerning the educational program for students
                                                     who are eligible to receive special education
                                                     services.
  Advanced Placement Courses and Exams (AP)          Courses which give students a chance to receive
                                                     college credit for a high school course by taking
                                                     an exam at year end.
  Alternative Certiﬁcation                           Alternative certiﬁcation programs (ACP’s) oﬀer a
                                                     nontraditional route to certiﬁcation that may allow
                                                     you to teach while completing the requirements.
                                                     These programs are located in universities, school
                                                     districts, education service centers, community
                                                     colleges, and private entities. A list of approved
                                                     programs is available. Only programs found on
                                                     this list may recommend an individual for a Texas
                                                     educator certiﬁcate.
  American Association of School Administrators      AASA, the School Superintendents Association,
  (AASA)                                             founded in 1865, is the professional organization
                                                     for more than 13,000 educational leaders in the
                                                     United States and throughout the world. AASA
                                                     members range from chief executive oﬃcers, su-
                                                     perintendents and senior level school administra-
                                                     tors to cabinet members, professors and aspiring
                                                     school system leaders.
  American College Test (ACT)                        The ACT is a national college-admission exam.
                                                     It assesses both the general educational level
                                                     of high school students and their readiness for
                                                     college-level work. The ACT consists of four tests:
                                                     English, Mathematics, Reading, and Science
                                                     Reasoning. The tests are curriculum-based and
                                                     universally accepted by U.S. colleges and univer-
                                                     sities.
  Analytics for Education (A4E)                      Technological tool or Achievement Dashboard
                                                     used by HISD to monitor performance indicators.
  Annual Financial and Compliance Report             See Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
                                                     (CAFR)
  Appropriation                                      Budget dollars that have been set aside for a
                                                     particular expenditure (salaries, instructional sup-
                                                     plies, capital outlay, etc).




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                              189
  Association of School Business Oﬃcials Interna-   The Association of School Business Oﬃcials
  tional (ASBO)                                     International (ASBO) is a professional association
                                                    that provides programs and services to promote
                                                    the highest standards of school business man-
                                                    agement practices, professional growth, and the
                                                    eﬀective use of educational resources.
  At-Risk Students                                  A designation assigned to students using cat-
                                                    egories identiﬁed by the state. Elementary stu-
                                                    dents in pre-kindergarten through third grade are
                                                    designated as – at risk// of dropping out of school
                                                    if they did not perform satisfactorily on the HISD
                                                    pre-kindergarten language arts and mathematics
                                                    assessments, the mCLASS CIRCLE assessment
                                                    or the Texas Primary Reading Inventory (TPRI)/
                                                    Tejas Lee. Secondary students are ―at-risk if
                                                    they failed two or more foundation courses during
                                                    a semester in the preceding or current school
                                                    year or are not maintaining such an average in
                                                    the current semester. Elementary and secondary
                                                    school students are designated as ―at-risk of
                                                    dropping out of school if they are Limited English
                                                    Proﬁcient (LEP), failed any section of TAKS on
                                                    the most recent attempt, were not advanced from
                                                    one grade level to the next for one or more school
                                                    years. Additional criteria include students who are
                                                    pregnant and/or a parent, are homeless, have
                                                    been previously reported as a dropout, reside in a
                                                    residential placement facility, are in the custody or
                                                    care of the Department of Protective and Regu-
                                                    latory Services, attend a disciplinary alternative
                                                    education program, are on conditional release
                                                    through the judicial courts, or have been expelled
                                                    during the preceding or current school year.
  Athletics Fund                                    Used to account for the educational, social, moral
                                                    and athletic skills of the student athlete. It pro-
                                                    vides a comprehensive High School and Middle
                                                    School program for male and female athletes in
                                                    areas such as football, basketball, track/ﬁeld and
                                                    soccer. The Athletics Fund is also used to sched-
                                                    ule athletic activities, transportation trips and
                                                    games oﬃcials and to eﬃciently operate Sports
                                                    Complex Venus for HISD athletics competitions
                                                    and events.
  Average Daily Attendance (ADA)                    The average number of students that are in at-
                                                    tendance daily in the school district determined
                                                    by the number of days a student attends school
                                                    compared to the number of days the student was
                                                    enrolled.
  Average Market Value                              This is determined by the county appraisal district
                                                    and reﬂects the average price that a property sells
                                                    at within the district's boundaries. This is diﬀerent
                                                    from the average taxable value.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                              190
  Average Scale Scores                           Test results can be used to evaluate the perfor-
                                                 mance of a group over time. Average scale scores
                                                 and the percentage of students meeting the
                                                 standard/meeting minimum expectations can be
                                                 analyzed across administrations within the same
                                                 grade and subject area to give insight into wheth-
                                                 er student performance is improving across years.
  Average Taxable Value (ATV)                    This is determined by the county appraisal district
                                                 based on appraised value of a home and deduct-
                                                 ing any state mandated exemptions and any local
                                                 option exemptions. This is the amount that the
                                                 homeowner will actually pay taxes on.
  Award for Excellence in Financial Management   Awarded by the Council of the Great City Schools,
                                                 the award is based on a thorough outside review
                                                 of HISD’s management practices conducted by
                                                 senior ﬁnancial executives from some of the coun-
                                                 try’s largest school systems. Areas they review
                                                 include ﬁnance and budget, business services,
                                                 human resources, and information technology.
  Benchmarking                                   Analyzing and comparing performance or other in-
                                                 dicators to the industry or peers to help in process
                                                 improvement.
  Biennium                                       A period of two years. Example: HISD adopts a
                                                 new budget each year (annually) while the State
                                                 of Texas adopts a biennial budget (a two year
                                                 budget).
  Bilingual                                      A student that speaks two or more languages.
  Biofuel                                        A fuel that is derived from biological materials,
                                                 such as plants and animals and can also be seen
                                                 as fuel derived from organic matter.
  Board Policy CA (Local)                        Collection of board policies that help to govern
                                                 the district's business, personnel, instructional,
                                                 student, and community interaction.
  Bond Referendum                                A proposal to the taxpayers requesting the ap-
                                                 proval to issue bonded debt for capital expendi-
                                                 ture for district facilities, vehicles, or other capital
                                                 items.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                              191
   Budget                                        A plan of ﬁnancial operations embodying an
                                                 estimate of proposed expenditures for a given
                                                 period or purpose and the proposed means of
                                                 ﬁnancing them. The budget usually consists of
                                                 three parts. The ﬁrst part contains a message
                                                 from the budget-making authority together with a
                                                 summary of the proposed expenditures and the
                                                 means of ﬁnancing them. The second part con-
                                                 sists of schedules supporting the summary. These
                                                 schedules show in detail the proposed expendi-
                                                 tures and means of ﬁnancing them together with
                                                 information as to past years’ actual revenues and
                                                 expenditures and other data used in making the
                                                 estimates. The third part is composed of drafts of
                                                 the appropriation, revenue, and borrowing mea-
                                                 sures necessary to put the budget into eﬀect.
   Budget Units                                  Refers to departments or campuses that have
                                                 budgets and have the authority to spend those
                                                 funds.
   Budgetary Accounts                            Those accounts necessary to reﬂect budget
                                                 operations and conditions, such as estimated
                                                 revenues, appropriations, and encumbrances, the
                                                 net balance, and other related information.
   Buy Back Services                             Services that are provided internally to other cam-
                                                 puses and departments at a fee for service
   Campus Resource Allocation                    The resource allocation process by which cam-
                                                 puses generate the funding that they ultimately
                                                 build budgets from each school year. Refer to the
                                                 Schools Section for detailed description of the
                                                 resource allocation.
   Capital Budget                                A plan of proposed capital outlays and the means
                                                 of ﬁnancing them for the current ﬁscal period. It
                                                 is usually a part of the current budget. If a capital
                                                 program is in operation, it will be the ﬁrst year
                                                 thereof. A capital program is sometimes referred
                                                 to as a capital budget.
   Capital Outlay                                Expenditures that result in the acquisition of, or
                                                 addition to, ﬁxed assets. In this district, a ﬁxed
                                                 asset is deﬁned as a tangible item whose ex-
                                                 pected life is two or more years and whose value
                                                 is greater than $5,000. Items that have a cost of
                                                 more than $500 per item are also purchased from
                                                 capital outlay funds, but are not classiﬁed as ﬁxed
                                                 assets. Exceptions to value limitations are soft-
                                                 ware ($1,500 or more per item) and catalogued
                                                 library materials. The capital items below $500 per
                                                 item are changed to supplies before submission
                                                 to the State as required by PEIMS guidelines.
   Capital Renovation Fund                       Accounts for all capital program projects on an
                                                 individual project basis. The primary source of
                                                 funding is voter approved bonds. See the Capital
                                                 Renovation section for more information.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                           192
   Career Pathways                                HISD’s Career Pathways program gives more
                                                  than 200 teachers the chance to serve in leader-
                                                  ship roles on their campus while paying them
                                                  additional money and aﬀording them leadership
                                                  opportunities.
   Carryover Budget                               Funds that are moved from one ﬁscal year to
                                                  another ﬁscal year usually due to purchase order
                                                  obligations. This can also be funds that were not
                                                  used on a speciﬁc project by the end of a ﬁscal
                                                  year but are still needed to complete that project
                                                  in the next ﬁscal year.
   Chancery SMS                                   The student information system used by HISD.
                                                  Schools use the software to perform various func-
                                                  tions including student registration and enrollment,
                                                  attendance tracking, grade reporting, and creation
                                                  of student transcripts. Data that is collected in
                                                  Chancery is often provided to other HISD data
                                                  systems. Reports that go to the Texas Education
                                                  Agency based on student data are generated
                                                  from Chancery or from data collected in Chancery.
   Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP)      The United States Department of Agriculture’s
                                                  (USDA) Child and Adult care food program pro-
                                                  vides aid to child and adult care institutions and
                                                  family or group day care homes for the provision
                                                  of nutritious foods that contribute to the wellness,
                                                  healthy growth, and development of young chil-
                                                  dren, and the health and wellness of older adults
                                                  and chronically impaired disabled persons.
   College Board                                  Founded in 1900, the College Board was created
                                                  to expand access to higher education. Today, the
                                                  membership association is made up of over 6,000
                                                  of the world’s leading educational institutions and
                                                  is dedicated to promoting excellence and equity in
                                                  education.
   Compensatory Education                         Program and instructional services which are
                                                  designed for at-risk students. These programs
                                                  and services are funded with State Compensatory
                                                  Education funds.
   Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR)   Document prepared by Accounting to report the
                                                  detailed results of district operations.
   Community Eligibility Provision (CEP)          The Community Eligibility Provision allows high-
                                                  poverty schools to provide breakfast and lunch
                                                  free to all students, ensuring that they are well
                                                  nourished and able to learn throughout the school
                                                  day. Families do not need to provide a school
                                                  lunch application in order to qualify. The schools
                                                  participating in the Community Eligibility Provision
                                                  are determined by HISD according to a formula
                                                  that takes into account free and reduced lunch
                                                  rates and other factors.
   Construction Manager-Program Administrator     The Construction Manager-Program Administra-
   (CM-PA)                                        tor (CM-PA) means the organization, selected
                                                  to represent HISD in managing the Construction
                                                  Project.



2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                           193
  Core Values                                    HISD has adopted 6 core values: Safety Above All
                                                 Else, Student Learning Is the Main Thing, Focus
                                                 on Results and Excellence, Parents Are Partners,
                                                 Common Decency, and Human Capital.
  Cost of Education Index (CEI)                  The Cost of Education Index (CEI) attempts to
                                                 adjust for varying economic conditions across the
                                                 state, based mainly on the size of the district, the
                                                 teacher salaries of neighboring districts, and the
                                                 percentage of low-income students in the district
                                                 in 1989–1990. The index has not been updated
                                                 since that time.
  Council of the Great City Schools (CGCS)       Goals: To educate all urban school students to
                                                 the highest academic standards. To lead, govern
                                                 and manage our urban public schools in ways that
                                                 advance the education of our children and inspire
                                                 the public's conﬁdence. To engage parents and
                                                 build a conﬁdent, committed and supportive urban
                                                 community for raising the achievement of urban
                                                 public school children. For more information visit
                                                 www.cgcs.org
  Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)            An acute respiratory illness in humans caused by
                                                 a coronavirus, capable of producing severe symp-
                                                 toms and in some cases death, especially in older
                                                 people and those with health conditions. It was
                                                 originally identiﬁed in China in 2019 and became
                                                 pandemic in 2020.
  Credit Recovery                                Credit recovery allows a student to make up or re-
                                                 take a course that they previously did not receive
                                                 credit for taking.
  Crisis Prevention Institute (CPI)              Crisis Prevention Institute is a program used in
                                                 HISD to train staﬀ to implement safe behavior
                                                 management methods that focus on prevention.
  Debt Instruments                               The type of debt issued, such as bonds, certiﬁ-
                                                 cates, mortgages, or other agreements between a
                                                 lender and a borrower.
  Debt Service Fund                              Resources that are budgeted for payment of the
                                                 district's debt including principal, interest and
                                                 other debt service fees.
  Debt Service Obligations                       The total amount of debt principal that the district
                                                 owes.
  Debt Service Rate                              The tax rate applied to the taxable value that is
                                                 dedicated to the payment of the district's debt.
                                                 These funds cannot be used for any other pur-
                                                 pose.
  Designated fund balance                        Represents tentative plans for future use of ﬁnan-
                                                 cial resources.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                          194
   Direct Certiﬁcation                            Direct certiﬁcation is a federally mandated pro-
                                                  cess used by School Nutrition Program sponsors
                                                  to certify school-age recipients whose families
                                                  receive services through the Texas Department of
                                                  Human Services, such as SNAP, for participation
                                                  in the school lunch program without completing
                                                  an application. If at least 51 percent of a school’s
                                                  population qualiﬁes via direct certiﬁcation, a
                                                  school may qualify for the community eligibility
                                                  provision.
   District Advisory Committee (DAC)              Committee made up of parents, students, and
                                                  other community members who wish to be a part
                                                  of the decision-making process at HISD and oﬀer
                                                  ideas and feedback at the district level.
   District Award for Teacher Excellence (DATE)   DATE is a non-competitive grant that provides
                                                  funding to support the establishment of district-
                                                  wide goals and the implementation of a ﬁnancial
                                                  awards system designed to: 1) award teachers
                                                  for positively impacting student achievement, 2)
                                                  target the district's most in-need campuses to im-
                                                  prove teacher quality, and 3) create capacity and
                                                  sustainability for improved instruction within the
                                                  district. DATE allows districts the opportunity to
                                                  create a district-wide incentive plan, create a local
                                                  incentive award plan targeting speciﬁc campuses,
                                                  or implement the Teacher Advancement Program
                                                  (TAP), a strategy developed by the Milken Family
                                                  Foundation.
   Dual-Credit Partnerships                       An agreement between the district and a college
                                                  or university to provide college credit for classes
                                                  attended during high school at a local college or
                                                  university.
   Economy of Scale                               The cost advantage that arises with increased
                                                  output of a product.
   End of Course (EOC) Assessments                STAAR end of course (EOC) assessments are
                                                  for high school students in speciﬁc subject areas.
                                                  Current EOC tests are administered in Algebra I,
                                                  biology, English I, English II, English III, and U.S.
                                                  History.
   Eﬀective Teacher Initiative                    Eﬀective Teachers Initiative was instituted to en-
                                                  sure success for all students through an eﬀective
                                                  teacher in every classroom. HISD’s priorities are
                                                  to hire early, identify and hire from the teaching
                                                  preparation programs that have a record of pro-
                                                  ducing eﬀective teachers, use a rigorous selection
                                                  process, empower principals to make strategic
                                                  hiring and retention decisions, and oﬀer incentives
                                                  to attract top talent.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                            195
  EMERGE                                         EMERGE-HISD is a program that prepares
                                                 talented HISD students from under-served com-
                                                 munities to successfully attend and graduate from
                                                 the nation's top colleges and universities. Stu-
                                                 dents in the EMERGE-HISD program beneﬁt from
                                                 extensive programming, individualized support
                                                 and tailored resources throughout grades 9-12.
                                                 EMERGE Program Managers, graduates of top-
                                                 tier colleges and universities, work closely with
                                                 students and their families to ensure students'
                                                 success at the nation’s top colleges.
  Encumbrance Accounting                         The system under which purchase orders, con-
                                                 tracts, and other commitments for the expenditure
                                                 of funds are recognized in the accounting system
                                                 in order to reserve the portion of the applicable
                                                 appropriation.
  English as a Second Language (ESL)             See English Language Learners (ELL).
  English Language Learners (ELL)                A person who is in the process of acquiring Eng-
                                                 lish and has another language as the ﬁrst native
                                                 language. The terms English language learner
                                                 and limited English proﬁcient student are used
                                                 interchangeably.
  E-rate                                         E-Rate is the commonly used name for the
                                                 Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal
                                                 Service Fund, which is administered by the Uni-
                                                 versal Service Administrative Company (USAC)
                                                 under the direction of the Federal Communica-
                                                 tions Commission (FCC). The program provides
                                                 discounts to assist most schools and libraries in
                                                 the United States (and U.S. territories) to obtain
                                                 aﬀordable telecommunications and Internet ac-
                                                 cess. It is one of four support programs funded
                                                 through a Universal Service fee charged to com-
                                                 panies that provide interstate and/or international
                                                 telecommunications services.
  Enrollment Snapshot                            This is used by the district and the state to take
                                                 a snapshot of the number of students enrolled in
                                                 total and in each instructional program on one day
                                                 of the year. This is used for projections for the dis-
                                                 trict and the state as well as the ﬁnal budget settle
                                                 up for schools in HISD.
  Enterprise Funds                               Enterprise funds are traditionally funds that pro-
                                                 vide a service in a for-proﬁt capacity.
  Estimated Frozen                               Frozen values refer to exemptions granted for
                                                 homeowners for things like over 65, veteran, and
                                                 surviving spouse.
  Ethnicity                                      Percentages of ethnic/racial composition of the
                                                 student population enrolled at the school as of the
                                                 PEIMS Snapshot Date every October, but reﬁned
                                                 and reported in the ﬁnal PEIMS submission of
                                                 every January The ﬁve categories required by the
                                                 Texas Education Agency and used in this docu-
                                                 ment are:




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                            196
  Fair Market Value                                 The amount at which the investment can be ex-
                                                    changed in a current transaction between willing
                                                    parties.
  Fallout                                           These are funds that remain unspent at the end
                                                    of a ﬁscal year. Some of these funds end up in the
                                                    district's fund balance. The district anticipates a
                                                    certain amount of fallout each year that helps to
                                                    balance the district budget.
  Foundation School Program (FSP)                   The Foundation School Program (FSP) is the
                                                    primary source of state funding for Texas school
                                                    districts. The program is administered by the
                                                    Texas Education Agency (TEA). The FSP, in its
                                                    current form, is meant to ensure that all school
                                                    districts, regardless of property wealth, receive
                                                    "substantially equal access to similar revenue per
                                                    student at similar tax eﬀort."
  Free/Reduced Lunch                                Percentages of students approved for free or
                                                    reduced lunch at the school. The state takes the
                                                    highest six months’ average for funding purposes.
  Full Time Equivalent (FTE)                        This is the full time status of an employee. For
                                                    example a full time employee is a 1.0 FTE and a
                                                    half time employee is 0.5 FTE.
  Fund Balance                                      See Fund Equity.
  Fund Equity (resources)                           Fund Equity is one indicator of the ﬁnancial
                                                    health and stability of a school district. A common
                                                    misconception is that fund equity is surplus cash
                                                    and therefore should correspond to the district’s
                                                    bank balance. Very simply stated, Fund Equity
                                                    represents the excess of a district’s assets over
                                                    its liabilities (what the district owns minus what it
                                                    owes). Cash is an asset, but is only one of many
                                                    district assets – some others would include: ac-
                                                    counts receivable, prepaid expenses, supplies,
                                                    equipment and buildings.
  Futures Academy                                   The HISD Futures Academy Program gives
                                                    students the opportunity to earn an Associate’s
                                                    degree and valuable industry certiﬁcations in high-
                                                    demand career ﬁelds while in high school at no
                                                    cost.
  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
  for Governmental Entities                       refer to the standard framework of guidelines for
                                                  ﬁnancial accounting used in any given jurisdiction;
                                                  generally known as accounting standards. GAAP
                                                  includes the standards, conventions, and rules
                                                  accountants follow in recording and summarizing,
                                                  and in the preparation of ﬁnancial statements. The
                                                  various rules and pronouncements come from the
                                                  Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) -
                                                  http://www.fasb.org/home - which is a non-proﬁt
                                                  organization that the accounting profession has
                                                  created to promulgate the rules of GAAP report-
                                                  ing and to amend the rules of GAAP reporting as
                                                  occasion requires.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                              197
  Governmental Accounting Standards Board        The Governmental Accounting Standards Board
  (GASB)                                         (GASB) is the independent organization that
                                                 establishes and improves standards of account-
                                                 ing and ﬁnancial reporting for U.S. state and local
                                                 governments. Established in 1984 by agreement
                                                 of the Financial Accounting Foundation (FAF)
                                                 and 10 national associations of state and local
                                                 government oﬃcials, the GASB is recognized by
                                                 governments, the accounting industry, and the
                                                 capital markets as the oﬃcial source of generally
                                                 accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for state
                                                 and local governments.
  Gifted and Talented (G/T)                      A child or youth who performs at or shows the po-
                                                 tential for performing at a remarkably high level of
                                                 accomplishment when compared to others of the
                                                 same age, experience, or environment and who:
  Green Pioneer Award                            The Texas Gulf Coast Chapter of the U.S. Green
                                                 Building Council presented HISD with its Green
                                                 Pioneer Award in recognition of the district’s
                                                 “unwavering dedication to building sustainable
                                                 schools for generations."
  Harris County Appraisal District (HCAD)        Assesses and collects the district's taxes. The dis-
                                                 trict sets the tax rate and HCAD uses the tax rate
                                                 to determine the taxes due to the district. HCAD
                                                 is responsible for sending out the tax notices and
                                                 collecting the taxes for the district.
  Healthy, Hunger Free Kids Act of 2010          Federal legislation that authorizes funds and sets
                                                 policy for the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
                                                 core child nutrition programs, including the Na-
                                                 tional School Lunch Program, the School Break-
                                                 fast Program, among others.
  Houston Galveston Area Council (H-GAC)         Houston Galveston Area Council is a region wide
                                                 voluntary association of local governments. The
                                                 13-county H-GAC service region is growing, be-
                                                 coming more diverse, and constantly changing. In
                                                 order to address the needs of citizens and busi-
                                                 nesses, local governments are providing leader-
                                                 ship to guide regional development wisely and
                                                 manage change constructively.
  HISD Foundation                                An independent 501 (c)(3) not-for-proﬁt organiza-
                                                 tion governed by a volunteer board of directors
                                                 that partners with the HISD Superintendent and
                                                 Board of Education to raise private funds to sup-
                                                 port HISD districtwide and school-based programs
                                                 and initiatives.
  Homestead Exemption                            Reduction to the taxable value of a home as a
                                                 primary residence to the taxpayer. The state has
                                                 a state mandated amount of $15,000 and the
                                                 district currently provides an optional exemption of
                                                 an additional 20%




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                          198
  International Baccalaureate Primary Years Pro-   An educational program managed by the Interna-
  gram (IB PYP)                                    tional Baccalaureate program for student aged 3
                                                   to 12 in subject areas including, language, social
                                                   students, mathematics, science and technology,
                                                   arts, personal, social and physical education.
  IDEA – Special Education                         The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act
                                                   (IDEA) is a United States federal law that gov-
                                                   erns how states and public agencies provide
                                                   early intervention, special education, and related
                                                   services to children with disabilities. It addresses
                                                   the educational needs of children with disabilities
                                                   from birth to age 18 or 21 in cases that involve 14
                                                   speciﬁed categories of disability.
  Individualized Education Programs (IEP)          The Individualized Education Program (IEP) is
                                                   developed by the ARD Committee. The IEP must
                                                   include the special education and related ser-
                                                   vices to be provided to the child to meet his or her
                                                   unique needs.
  Insurance Recovery Proceeds                      Proceeds received from the insurance company
                                                   for losses above the deductible the district is
                                                   required to pay.
  Instructional Practice (IP) Rubric               The Instructional Practice (IP) rubric is a tool
                                                   developed and used by HISD when appraising
                                                   teachers and determining professional expecta-
                                                   tions (PE).
  Intergovernmental Charges                        “Intergovernmental” is a classiﬁcation that is ap-
                                                   propriate where one governmental unit transfers
                                                   resources to another. In particular, Chapter 41
                                                   purchase of WADA and the transfer of students
                                                   where one school district pays another school
                                                   district for educating students are examples of
                                                   intergovernmental charges.
  Internal Control Reviews                         Reviews of whether or not the district's internal
                                                   controls are providing the intended business
                                                   process and preventing damage or loss to district
                                                   assets.
  Internal Controls                                Designed to provide management with reason-
                                                   able, but not absolute, assurance that assets are
                                                   safeguarded.
  Internal Service Funds                           Provide services to campuses or departments
                                                   through a fee for service program.
  International Baccalaureate Program (IB)         The International Baccalaureate (IB) oﬀers four
                                                   high quality international education programs to
                                                   more than one million students in 146 countries.
  Intranet                                         The district's internal network. This is accessible
                                                   on the local network or through a user account
                                                   access from outside the local server.
  Istation Reading                                 A comprehensive computer-based reading
                                                   program used in HISD that maximizes students’
                                                   reading ﬂuency, comprehension and retention,
                                                   and academic success
  Levy                                             Value that the district will collect taxes on.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                            199
  Limited English Proﬁciency (LEP)                Persons unable to communicate eﬀectively in
                                                  English.
  Linked Learning Program                         A district initiative to connect academics to real-
                                                  world experiences by combining technical curricu-
                                                  la with exposure to real-world professionals. The
                                                  programs engages students in industry-themed
                                                  program, such as engineering, arts and media,
                                                  and biomedicine and health.
  Literacy x 3 Program                            A district-wide literacy initiative intended to in-
                                                  crease student reading scores.
  Maintenance and Operating (M&O) Rate            Tax rate for funding the district's maintenance and
                                                  operations, not including the debt service.
  Maintenance of Eﬀort (MOE)                      Refers to the Federal requirement that the district
                                                  maintain the same funding level per special edu-
                                                  cation student that it spent in the previous year.
  Maintenance Response Team (MRT)                 Routine and aesthetic issues classiﬁed as those
                                                  which will be addressed by the Maintenance
                                                  Response Team ( MRT ) or Preventative mainte-
                                                  nance (PM) activities.
  Mandatory Expenditure Levels                    The state requires districts to spend a statutory
                                                  minimum amount of the funds the district receives
                                                  for special education, bilingual, gifted and talent-
                                                  ed, career and technology, and at-risk students.
  Medicaid Fund                                   Used to account for the ﬁnancial operation of
                                                  special reimbursement programs oﬀered by the
                                                  District. For several years, the district has been
                                                  a consultant to other school districts in a Med-
                                                  icaid reimbursement program which is a federal
                                                  program that provides partial reimbursement for
                                                  health care services to eligible children. In ad-
                                                  dition to processing its own internal Medicaid
                                                  claims, the District currently provides Medicaid
                                                  consulting services to other Texas school districts.
  Meritorious Budget Award (MBA)                  A prestigious award for excellence in budget pre-
                                                  sentation awarded by the Association of School
                                                  Business Oﬃcials International. This award is
                                                  conferred only to school entities that have met or
                                                  exceeded the Meritorious Budget Award criteria.
  Mexican American Legal Defense and Education-   Founded in 1968, MALDEF is the nation’s leading
  al Fund (MALDEF)                                Latino legal civil rights organization. Often de-
                                                  scribed as the “law ﬁrm of the Latino community”,
                                                  MALDEF promotes social change through advo-
                                                  cacy, communications, community education, and
                                                  litigation in the areas of education, employment,
                                                  immigrant rights, and political access.
  Miles Ahead Scholars (MAS)                      A prgram that empowers young men of color to
                                                  ignite positive change in their lives, schools, and
                                                  communities by preparing them to attend and
                                                  graduate from our nation’s top universities.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                           200
   Montessori Methods                                Montessori is a revolutionary method of observing
                                                     and supporting the natural development of chil-
                                                     dren. Montessori educational practice helps chil-
                                                     dren develop creativity, problem solving, critical
                                                     thinking and time-management skills, to contribute
                                                     to society and the environment, and to become
                                                     fulﬁlled persons in their particular time and place
                                                     on Earth. The basis of Montessori practice in the
                                                     classroom is mixed age group (3 - 6 ages in one
                                                     class), individual choice of research and work,
                                                     and uninterrupted concentration. Group lessons
                                                     are seldom found in a Montessori classroom, but
                                                     learning abounds.
   Moody’s Corporation                               A credit rating, research, and risk analysis ﬁrm.
                                                     The Company provides credit ratings and related
                                                     research, data and analytical tools, quantitative
                                                     credit risk measures, risk scoring software, and
                                                     credit portfolio management solutions and securi-
                                                     ties pricing software and valuation models.
   National Assessment of Educational Progress       The National Assessment of Educational Progress
   (NAEP)                                            (NAEP) is the largest nationally representative
                                                     and continuing assessment of what America's
                                                     students know and can do in various subject ar-
                                                     eas. The National Assessment Governing Board,
                                                     appointed by the U.S. Secretary of Education
                                                     but independent of the Department, sets policy
                                                     for NAEP and is responsible for developing the
                                                     framework and test speciﬁcations.
   National Blue Ribbon Award                        The National Blue Ribbon Schools Program rec-
                                                     ognizes public and non-public elementary, middle,
                                                     and high schools where students achieve at very
                                                     high levels and/or where the achievement gap is
                                                     narrowing. The Program sets a standard of excel-
                                                     lence for all schools striving for the highest level of
                                                     achievement. The U. S. Department of Education
                                                     bestows this award. For more information refer to
                                                     http://www2.ed.gov/nationalblueribbonschools
   National Center for Education Statistics (NCES)   National Center for Education Statistics (NCES)
                                                     is the primary federal entity for collecting and
                                                     analyzing data related to education in the U.S.
                                                     and other nations. NCES is located within the
                                                     U.S. Department of Education and the Institute of
                                                     Education Sciences.
   National Center for Educational Achievement       The National Center for Educational Achievement
   (NCEA)                                            (NCEA) is a non-proﬁt, non-partisan ACT orga-
                                                     nization whose mission is to help K-12 students
                                                     reach College and Career Readiness (CCR).
                                                     Reaching CCR requires rigorous academic prepa-
                                                     ration that should begin early during students'
                                                     K-12 education. NCEA carries out data analysis,
                                                     research, advocacy, and program development
                                                     that promotes high academic standards and stu-
                                                     dent achievement throughout K-12 to help more
                                                     students reach college and career readiness.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                 201
  National Percentile Ranking (NPR)              Percentiles are employed in evaluating standard-
                                                 ized tests, measuring group performance and
                                                 evaluating distribution of wealth across a popula-
                                                 tion. On tests, a percentile is the percentage of
                                                 scores less than a given score. Percentiles are
                                                 useful for evaluating things such as test scores
                                                 because they convert raw data into a simpler form
                                                 that is easier to understand.
  National School Breakfast and Lunch Program    The School Breakfast Program (SBP) provides
                                                 cash assistance to States to operate nonproﬁt
                                                 breakfast programs in schools and residential
                                                 childcare institutions. The program is administered
                                                 at the Federal level by FNS (Food and Nutrition
                                                 Service). State education agencies administer
                                                 the SBP at the State level, and local school food
                                                 authorities operate it in schools.
  National School Lunch Program (NSLP)           The National School Lunch Program (NSLP) is
                                                 a federally assisted meal program operating in
                                                 public and nonproﬁt private schools and residen-
                                                 tial child care institutions. It provides nutritionally
                                                 balanced, low-cost or free lunches to children
                                                 each school day. The program was established
                                                 under the National School Lunch Act, signed by
                                                 President Harry Truman in 1946.
  National School Public Relations Association   The NSPRA awards a Gold Medallion Award
  (NSPRA)                                        annually to recognize outstanding school public
                                                 relations programs.
  New Education System                           Schools in HISD’s New Education System (NES)
                                                 receive additional resources and support to
                                                 dramatically improve academic performance and
                                                 give students a variety of enriching opportunities.
                                                 To improve schools by taking incremental steps—
                                                 such as adopting a new curriculum or expanding
                                                 certain programs—the NES involves whole-scale,
                                                 systemic reform. NES is designed to dramatically
                                                 improve academic performance, close achieve-
                                                 ment gaps, and ensure Houston’s students gradu-
                                                 ate prepared for the modern workplace and world.
                                                 It is an ambitious eﬀort for our city—and, indeed,
                                                 the nation—with the potential to remedy decades
                                                 of ineﬀective K-12 policies and prove what is pos-
                                                 sible for America’s students.
  Newsweek’s Top High School Rankings            For more than a decade, Newsweek has pub-
                                                 lished an annual list of America’s Top High
                                                 Schools, ranked primarily according to a ratio of
                                                 AP/IB exams to the number of students graduat-
                                                 ing.
  Normal Curve Equivalent (NCE)                  The NCE distribution is an equal-interval, con-
                                                 tinuous scoring scale, which is normalized and
                                                 universal.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                             202
   Notice of Grant Award (NOGA)                  After submitting a grant application and negotiat-
                                                 ing an application to approval, TEA then awards
                                                 the grant funds by issuing the Notice of Grant
                                                 Award (NOGA). At that point the grant application
                                                 becomes a contract describing a program that the
                                                 school district is legally obligated to deliver.
   Nutrition Services                            The fund used to account for the district's food
                                                 service activities at all HISD schools.
   On-Behalf payments                            Funds collected by the district on behalf of the
                                                 employee and then sent to the Texas Retirement
                                                 System (TRS).
   Other ﬁnancing sources                        Includes such revenues as transfers from other
                                                 funds, sale of bonds, and sales of assets. These
                                                 items are outside of the regular local, state, and
                                                 federal operating revenue the district receives.
   Other Post-Employment Beneﬁt (OPEB)           It is a multiple-emloyer, cost-sharing deﬁned Other
                                                 Post-Employement Beneﬁt (OPEB) plan that has
                                                 a spcial funding situation. The plan is adminis-
                                                 tered through a trust by the Teacher Retirement
                                                 System of Texas (TRS) Board of Trustees.
   Pay-As-You-Go capital program                 Funds that are transferred from the general oper-
                                                 ating fund to the capital renovation fund and are
                                                 for ongoing maintenance of the district's facilities.
                                                 See the Capital Renovation Section for more
                                                 information.
   Pedagogy                                      Study of teaching methods, including the aims of
                                                 education and the ways in which such goals may
                                                 be achieved. The ﬁeld relies heavily on education-
                                                 al psychology, or theories about the way in which
                                                 learning takes place.
   PowerUp                                       A district-wide initiative to transform teaching and
                                                 learning through digital-age instruction, technol-
                                                 ogy, and personalization.
   Practicum                                     In a college or university- the part of a course con-
                                                 sisting of practical work in a particular ﬁeld.
   Premium on Bond Sale                          A bond premium is a bond that is trading above its
                                                 par value. This bond premium will reduce the yield
                                                 to maturity of the bond, while a bond discount will
                                                 enhance its yield. The size of the premium will
                                                 decline as the bond approaches maturity. The pre-
                                                 mium will dwindle to zero at maturity, since bond
                                                 issues are generally redeemed at par.
   Preliminary SAT/ National Merit Scholarship   A standardized test administered by the College
   Qualifying Test (PSAT/NMSQT)                  Board and cosponsored by the National Merit
                                                 Scholarship Corporation. Scores from the PSAT/
                                                 NMSQT are used to determine eligibility and
                                                 qualiﬁcation for the National Merit Scholarship
                                                 Program.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                           203
  Public Education Information Management Sys-          PEIMS is a statewide data collection and reporting
  tem (PEIMS)                                           system operated by the Texas Education Agency.
                                                        It includes extensive information on students,
                                                        staﬃng, and school budgets/ﬁnances, and serves
                                                        as the fundamental database for many statewide
                                                        reports on public education. The fall PEIMS data
                                                        submission date is in October of each year. Ex-
                                                        cept where otherwise noted, student and position
                                                        information is taken from this PEIMS database.
  Public Facilities Corporation/ Public Facility Cor-   The Public Facility Corporation fund was estab-
  poration (HISDPFC)                                    lished by the Houston Independent School District
                                                        Public Facility Corporation (HISDPFC) in 1998.
                                                        Currently it funds two high schools: Westide
                                                        and Chavez; four elementary schools: DeAnda,
                                                        Roosevelt, Peck, and Cunningham; and the Food
                                                        Services Warehouse.
  Pupil-Staﬀ Ratio                                      A ratio of the number of students to staﬀ in the
                                                        district.
  Permanent School Fund                                 An endowed fund established by the Texas Leg-
                                                        islature for the beneﬁt of Texas Public Schools.
                                                        Revenues from the sale of certain state lands and
                                                        mineral rights revenues are deposited into the
                                                        PSF.
  RDA Group                                             A global market research and consulting ﬁrm that
                                                        conducted the “Your Voice” district survey. Origi-
                                                        nally founded in 1969 as Research Data Analysis,
                                                        Inc. they changed their name in 1996 to the RDA
                                                        Group.
  Regular Program Adjustment Factor (RPAF)              With the passage of SB 1 (82-1), the Texas Leg-
                                                        islature made several changes to school ﬁnance
                                                        formulas. One of these changes codiﬁed the cal-
                                                        culation of the regular program allotment, which is
                                                        equal to a district's number of students in average
                                                        daily attendance1 multiplied by the adjusted basic
                                                        allotment and then by what is known as the regu-
                                                        lar program adjustment factor (RPAF). The RPAF
                                                        has the eﬀect of reducing the amount of funding
                                                        school districts receive.
  Reserved Fund Balance                                 The term reserve should be used in governmental
                                                        fund ﬁnancial reporting only to identify the portion
                                                        of the fund balance that is not available for appro-
                                                        priation or expenditure, and/or legally earmarked
                                                        for a speciﬁc future use - i.e., legal restriction on
                                                        the use of assets.
  Reserve for Operations                                Reservation of 5% of the district’s General Fund
                                                        Budget that can only be used with a 2/3’s vote of
                                                        the Board of Education.
  ROTC Reimbursement                                    The Federal Government reimburses the district
                                                        for a portion of the salary of ROTC (Reserve Of-
                                                        ﬁcers Training Corps.) qualiﬁed staﬀ. The reim-
                                                        bursement is based on a Federal calculation of
                                                        the amount the employee would have received if
                                                        on active duty.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                                  204
  Response to Intervention (RTI)                 Response to Intervention (RTI) is the practice of
                                                 meeting the academic and behavioral needs of
                                                 all students through a variety of services con-
                                                 taining the following key elements: High-quality
                                                 instruction and scientiﬁc research-based tiered
                                                 interventions aligned with individual student need.
                                                 Frequent monitoring of student progress to make
                                                 results-based academic and/or behavioral deci-
                                                 sions. Application of student response data to
                                                 important educational decisions (such as those
                                                 regarding placement, intervention, curriculum, and
                                                 instructional goals and methodologies).
  Responsive equilibrium                         Responsive equilibrium represents the balance
                                                 between the educational needs of students and
                                                 the ability of the community and the state to
                                                 provide the necessary ﬁnancial support to serve
                                                 them.
  Scale Score                                    The basic score on any test is the raw score,
                                                 which is simply the number of questions correct.
                                                 A raw score can be interpreted only in terms of a
                                                 particular ser of test questions. Unlike raw scores,
                                                 scale scores can be interpreted across diﬀerent
                                                 sets of test questions. Scale scores allow direct
                                                 comparisons of student performance between
                                                 speciﬁc sets of test questions from diﬀerent test
                                                 administrations. A scale score is a conversion
                                                 of the raw score onto a scale that is common
                                                 to all test forms for that assessment. The scale
                                                 score takes into account the diﬃculty level of the
                                                 speciﬁc set of questions on which it is based. It
                                                 quantiﬁes a student’s performance relative to the
                                                 passing standards or proﬁciency levels. (TEA
                                                 Student Assessment Division).
  Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT)               The SAT Reasoning Test (SAT) is a college-
                                                 entrance exam developed by the SAT College
                                                 Board. The SAT provides a standard by which
                                                 theskills of students applying for colleges and uni-
                                                 versities can be comparednationally. Standardized
                                                 tests are designed to allow college admissionsof-
                                                 ﬁcers to judge all students by a common measur-
                                                 ing stick.Standardized test scores compensate for
                                                 the uncertainty surroundinghigh school grades,
                                                 school-to-school diﬀerences, grade inﬂation,
                                                 andteaching quality, for example. The SAT was
                                                 redesigned for 2005, anda writing section was
                                                 included.
  School Allocation Handbook                     Provides details on how the district's per unit
                                                 allocation for campuses is calculated and how
                                                 a campus generates funds. This document is
                                                 available on the district's Budgeting and Financial
                                                 Planning website.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                          205
  School Foundation Funding                        The Foundation School Program (FSP) is the
                                                   primary source of state funding for Texas school
                                                   districts. The program is administered by the
                                                   Texas Education Agency (TEA). The FSP, in its
                                                   current form, is meant to ensure that all school
                                                   districts, regardless of property wealth, receive
                                                   "substantially equal access to similar revenue per
                                                   student at similar tax eﬀort."
  Schools FIRST                                    The purpose of the Financial Accountability
                                                   Rating System of Texas (Texas Administrative
                                                   Code (TAC), Title 19, § 109.1001) is to ensure
                                                   that school districts and open-enrollment charter
                                                   schools are held accountable for the quality of
                                                   their ﬁnancial management practices and achieve
                                                   improved performance in the management of their
                                                   ﬁnancial resources. The system is designed to
                                                   encourage Texas public schools to manage their
                                                   ﬁnancial resources better in order to provide the
                                                   maximum allocation possible for direct instruc-
                                                   tional purposes. The system will also disclose the
                                                   quality of local management and decision-making
                                                   processes that impact the allocation of ﬁnancial
                                                   resources in Texas public schools.
  Schoolwires                                      Schoolwires is a content management system
                                                   that will allow your department to create a robust
                                                   public site that not only represents your oﬃce
                                                   professionally, but also provides numerous tools
                                                   to help maximize your web presence.
  School-Within-A-School (SWAS)                    An educational model that provides establishes a
                                                   smaller educational unit with separate educational
                                                   program within a school. The smaller unit typically
                                                   maintains its own staﬀ, students, and budget.
  Science Technology Engineering Math (STEM)       The Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math-
                                                   ematics (STEM) Education Coalition works to sup-
                                                   port STEM programs for teachers and students at
                                                   the U.S. Department of Education, the National
                                                   Science Foundation, and other agencies that oﬀer
                                                   STEM related programs.
  Shared Decision-Making Committee (SDMC)/ Site State established the SDMC in 1992. Site-based
  Based Decision Making (SBDM)                  decision making (SBDM) is a process for decen-
                                                tralizing decisions to improve the educational
                                                outcomes at every school campus through a
                                                collaborative eﬀort by which principals, teachers,
                                                campus staﬀ, district staﬀ, parents, and commu-
                                                nity representatives assess educational outcomes
                                                of all students, determine goals and strategies,
                                                and ensure that strategies are implemented and
                                                adjusted to improve student achievement.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                           206
   Small School Subsidy                            Additional funds received above the base per unit
                                                   allocation for those campuses that fall below 500
                                                   students for elementary schools, 750 students
                                                   for middle schools, and 1,000 students for High
                                                   Schools. These funds are meant to assist these
                                                   small schools in providing the same ancillary op-
                                                   portunities to students that larger campuses are
                                                   able to provide.
   Special Populations                             Special populations refer to students that are in
                                                   state speciﬁc categories. These include special
                                                   education, career and technology, bilingual/esl,
                                                   at-risk, and gifted and talented.
   Special Revenue Fund                            The fund that the district uses to account for all
                                                   grants received by the district including all local,
                                                   state, federal, and private grants received.
   SRA’s Corrective Reading Program                Science Research Associates is a Chicago-based
                                                   publisher of educational materials and school-
                                                   room reading comprehension products.
   Standard Error of Measurement (SEM)             Standard error is a measure of uncertainty around
                                                   an estimate.
   State of Texas Assessments of Academic Readi-   Annual assessments implemented by the Texas
   ness (STAAR)                                    Educational Agency in the following subject areas
                                                   and grades: Reading and Mathematics, grades
                                                   3–8 , Writing at grades 4 and 7, Science at grades
                                                   5 and 8, Social Studies at grade 8, End-of-Course
                                                   (EOC) assessments for English I, English II, Alge-
                                                   bra I, Biology and U.S History
   STAAR Standards                                 STAAR performance standards relate levels of
                                                   test performance to the expectations deﬁned in
                                                   the state-mandated curriculum standards known
                                                   as the Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills
                                                   (TEKS). Cut scores established by the agency
                                                   distinguish between performance levels, or cat-
                                                   egories. The process of establishing cut scores
                                                   that deﬁne performance levels for an assessment
                                                   is standard setting. Standard setting is also used
                                                   to classify students into an appropriate perfor-
                                                   mance category.
   Standard & Poor’s                               With oﬃces in 23 countries and a history that
                                                   dates back more than 150 years, Standard &
                                                   Poor's is known to investors worldwide as a
                                                   leader of ﬁnancial- market intelligence. Today
                                                   Standard & Poor's strives to provide investors
                                                   who want to make better informed investment
                                                   decisions with market intelligence in the form of
                                                   credit ratings, indices, investment research and
                                                   risk evaluations and solutions.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                            207
  Stanford and Aprenda Exams                      Stanford 10 provides reliable data to help mea-
                                                  sure student progress toward content standards
                                                  and high expectations. This multiple-choice as-
                                                  sessment helps to identify student strengths and
                                                  needs, leading to eﬀective placement and instruc-
                                                  tional planning. Help Spanish-speaking students
                                                  meet the challenging academic content and
                                                  achievement standards that all students are ex-
                                                  pected to meet. Aprenda 3 mirrors the Stanford
                                                  Achievement Test Series, Tenth Edition (Stanford
                                                  10), to provide the highest quality assessment of
                                                  content standards. Hispanic educators assisted in
                                                  the development of Aprenda 3 to ensure the test
                                                  language used is culturally neutral.
  State Charter Schools                           To further promote local initiative, the 1995 revi-
                                                  sion of the Texas Education Code established
                                                  a new type of public school, known as a charter
                                                  school. Charter schools are subject to fewer state
                                                  laws than other public schools with the idea of en-
                                                  suring ﬁscal and academic accountability without
                                                  undue regulation of instructional methods or peda-
                                                  gogical innovation. Like school districts, charter
                                                  schools are monitored and accredited under the
                                                  statewide testing and accountability system.
  State Fiscal Stabilization Funds (SFSF)         The State Fiscal Stabilization Fund (SFSF) pro-
                                                  gram is a new one-time appropriation of $53.6
                                                  billion under the American Recovery and Rein-
                                                  vestment Act of 2009 (ARRA). Of the amount
                                                  appropriated, the U.S. Department of Education
                                                  will award governors approximately $48.6 billion
                                                  by formula under the SFSF program in exchange
                                                  for a commitment to advance essential educa-
                                                  tion reforms to beneﬁt students from early learn-
                                                  ing through post-secondary education, including:
                                                  college- and career-ready standards and high-
                                                  quality, valid and reliable assessments for all
                                                  students; development and use of pre-K through
                                                  post-secondary and career data systems; increas-
                                                  ing teacher eﬀectiveness and ensuring an equi-
                                                  table distribution of qualiﬁed teachers; and turning
                                                  around the lowest-performing schools.
  State of Texas Assessments of Academic Readi-   Beginning in spring 2012, the State of Texas As-
  ness (STAAR)                                    sessments of Academic Readiness (STAAR™) re-
                                                  placed the Texas Assessment of Knowledge and
                                                  Skills (TAKS). The STAAR program at grades 3-8
                                                  assesses the same subjects and grades that were
                                                  assessed on TAKS. At high school level, however,
                                                  grade-speciﬁc assessments will be replaced with
                                                  ﬁve end-of-course (EOC) assessments: Algebra I,
                                                  biology, English I, English II, English III, and U.S.
                                                  History. Based on performance on the STAARs
                                                  schools and districts in Texas receive one of four
                                                  possible rankings: Exemplary, Recognized, Aca-
                                                  demically Acceptable, and Academically Unac-
                                                  ceptable.



2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                            208
  Summer Food Service Program                    The Summer Food Service Program (SFSP) pro-
                                                 vides free, nutritious meals to help children in low-
                                                 income areas get the nutrition they need to learn,
                                                 play, and grow, throughout the summer months
                                                 when they are out of school.
  Targeted Assistance Program                    A targeted assistance program directs services
                                                 only to students identiﬁed as failing, or most at
                                                 risk of failing, to meet the state’s performance
                                                 standards.
  Target Revenue Reduction Factor (TRF)          A factor used by the Texas Education Agency in
                                                 calculating state aid for a school district.
  TAKS Accommodated Exams                        The Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills
                                                 (TAKS) measures a student’s mastery of the
                                                 state-mandated curriculum, the Texas Essential
                                                 Knowledge and Skills (TEKS). TAKS includes a
                                                 form called TAKS (Accommodated) for students
                                                 receiving special education services who meet
                                                 the eligibility criteria for speciﬁc accommodations.
                                                 This is a general assessment based on the same
                                                 grade-level academic achievement standards as
                                                 TAKS. The TAKS (Accommodated) form includes
                                                 format changes (larger font; fewer items per page)
                                                 and contains no embedded ﬁeld-test items. TAKS
                                                 (Accommodated) is administered in the same
                                                 grades and subjects as TAKS, including all Stu-
                                                 dent Success Initiative (SSI) and exit level retest
                                                 opportunities. (TEA 2011-2012 Accommodations
                                                 Manual).
  Tax Increment Funds                            Taxes that are collected by the district and then
                                                 remitted to another governmental entity (City of
                                                 Houston for HISD) to redevelop a speciﬁc zone
                                                 within the city or county. A portion of the funds are
                                                 returned to HISD for instructional facilities within
                                                 each zone. Tax increment ﬁnancing is a tool that
                                                 local governments can use to publicly ﬁnance
                                                 needed structural improvements and enhanced
                                                 infrastructure within a deﬁned area, or tax incre-
                                                 ment reinvestment zone. The statutes governing
                                                 tax increment ﬁnancing are located in Chapter 311
                                                 of the Texas Tax Code.
  Tax Increment Reinvestment Zones (TIRZ)        See Tax Increment Funds.
  Taxable Assessed Valuation (TAV)               Total amount of taxable property the district is
                                                 able to receive taxes on.
  Tejas Lee-TPRI Pre-K & Kindergarten Assess-    The TPRI is a highly reliable early reading as-
  ment                                           sessment designed to identify the reading devel-
                                                 opment of students in kindergarten through third
                                                 grade. This diagnostic instrument is an easy to
                                                 use oneon-one assessment which helps teach-
                                                 ers provide targeted instruction so that students
                                                 improve as readers.
  Texas Academic Performance Report (TAPR)       An annual report issued by the Texas Education
                                                 Agency that compiles range of information on
                                                 the performance of students in each school and
                                                 district in Texas.



2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                           209
  Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills           The Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills
  (TAKS)                                             (TAKS) assessments are designed to measure
                                                     the extent to which a student has learned and is
                                                     able to apply the deﬁned knowledge and skills
                                                     at each tested grade level. This test has been
                                                     replaced with the STAAR.
  Texas Association of School Administrators         The Association shall be a membership corpora-
  (TASA)                                             tion, and is an aﬃliate of the American Associa-
                                                     tion of School Administrators. The purpose of this
                                                     organization shall be to promote the progress of
                                                     education in the State of Texas.
  Texas Connections Academy                          Texas Connections Academy @ Houston (TCAH)
                                                     is a tuition-free virtual school. TCAH gives stu-
                                                     dents the ﬂexibility to learn at home with a curricu-
                                                     lum that meets rigorous state education standards
  Texas Department of State Health Services Coor-    A quality CSH program is an integrated set of
  dinated School Health (CSH)                        planned, sequential, school-aﬃliated strategies,
                                                     activities and services designed to promote the
                                                     optimal physical, emotional, social and educa-
                                                     tional development of students.
  Texas Education Agency (TEA)                       The mission of the Texas Education Agency is to
                                                     provide leadership, guidance and resources to
                                                     help schools meet the educational needs of all
                                                     students.
  Texas Education Agency’s Financial Accountability Guidelines for ﬁnancial, procurement, student,
  System Resource Guide                             budgeting, and other rules and procedures for
                                                    district operations. Available on the Texas Educa-
                                                    tion Website.
  Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills (TEKS)        The grade-level content standards adopted by the
                                                     Texas Legislature.
  Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board          The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board's
  (THECB)                                            mission is to promote access, aﬀordability, quality,
                                                     success, and cost eﬃciency in the state's institu-
                                                     tions of higher education, through Closing the
                                                     Gaps and its successor plan, resulting in a glob-
                                                     ally competent workforce that positions Texas as
                                                     an international leader in an increasingly complex
                                                     world economy.
  Texas Permanent School Fund (PSF)                  The Texas Permanent School Fund (PSF) was
                                                     created with a $2,000,000 appropriation by the
                                                     Texas Legislature in 1854 expressly for the beneﬁt
                                                     of the public schools of Texas. The Constitution of
                                                     1876 stipulated that certain lands and all proceeds
                                                     from the sale of these lands should also constitute
                                                     the PSF. Additional acts later gave more public
                                                     domain land and rights to the PSF.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                               210
   Texas Public School Retired Employees Group     It is a multiple-employer, cost-sharing deﬁned
   Insurance Program (TRS-Care)                    Other Post-Employment Beneﬁt (OPEB) plan that
                                                   has a special funding situation. The plan is ad-
                                                   ministered through a trust by the Teacher Retire-
                                                   ment System of Texas (TRS) Board of Trustees.
                                                   It is established and administered in accordance
                                                   with the Texas Insurance Code, Chapter 1575.
   Texas Title I Priority Schools (TTIPS)          The Texas Title I Priority Schools (TTIPS) Grant
                                                   Program is funded by the federal NCLB Section
                                                   1003(g) and the American Recovery and Rein-
                                                   vestment Act Section 1003(g) School Improve-
                                                   ment Grant appropriations. Campus eligibility for
                                                   the program is deﬁned in the U.S. Department
                                                   of Education Final Regulations released Dec. 3,
                                                   2009, and amended by the 2010 Appropriations
                                                   Act.
   Texas Virtual School Network (TxVSN)            The Texas Virtual School Network is a clear-
                                                   inghouse of rigorous online courses oﬀered by
                                                   approved providers. Because the Texas Educa-
                                                   tion Agency approves all courses, students can
                                                   be assured that courses meet the state's high
                                                   standards for teaching and learning.
   Twilight High Schools                           Twilight or Flex High Schools oﬀer courses to
                                                   complete a high school diploma featuring non-
                                                   traditional hours, online, self-paced coursework
                                                   guided by and supported by knowledgeable, car-
                                                   ing teachers at various locations around the city.
   Understanding the Budget Coding Process Hand-   Manual used by schools and departments to
   book                                            understand the HISD budget coding and position
                                                   management processes in HISD.
   Undesignated Fund Balance                       Represents the portion of fund balance that is
                                                   available for budgeting in future periods.
   Unique Per Unit Allocation (PUA)Schools         Additional per unit allocation received by some
                                                   district campuses due to additional costs for
                                                   running those programs. For example the Hous-
                                                   ton School for the Visual and Performing Arts
                                                   (HSPVA) and the DeBakey High School for Health
                                                   Professionals both receive an additional PUA for
                                                   operating their programs.
   Vanguard Magnet Program                         These district wide Vanguard Magnet programs
                                                   are designed to meet the needs of G/T students
                                                   in grades K-12 by providing a learning continuum
                                                   that is diﬀerentiated in depth, complexity, and
                                                   pacing.
   Vanguard Neighborhood Programs                  These programs are designed to meet the needs
                                                   of the G/T students at their neighborhood, zoned
                                                   school or Magnet school.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                          211
  Washington Post High School Challenge          The Washington Post ranks the most challenging
                                                 high schools in America through an index formula
                                                 that's a simple ratio: the number of Advanced
                                                 Placement, International Baccalaureate and
                                                 Advanced International Certiﬁcate of Education
                                                 tests given at a school each year, divided by the
                                                 number of seniors who graduated that year. A ra-
                                                 tio of 1.000 means the school had as many tests
                                                 as graduates.
  WOW Videos                                     "Within Our Walls" posted to the district's website
                                                 throughout the year.




2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section                                                         212
