2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
Cover Page
2025 Accountability Rating: The overall rating earned by the district or campus for 2025.

2025 Special Education Determination Status (district TAPR only): This label represents an integrated
determination level status based on an evaluation of each local educational agency’s (LEA) Results
Driven Accountability (RDA) indicators in the special education program area and four Federally
Required Elements (FREs), which include the State Performance Plan (SPP) compliance indicators 9, 10,
11, 12, and 13; data integrity; uncorrected noncompliance; and financial audit findings. Each LEA
receives one of four special education determination levels (DLs):
Meets Requirements
Needs Assistance
Needs Intervention Needs
Substantial Intervention

2025 Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB) Test (Career Exploration) (districts serving
grades 10–12): Senate Bill 1843 requires that each school year, each school district and open-enrollment
charter school provide students in grades 10–12 the opportunity to take the ASVAB and consult with a
military recruiter. (Data source: PEIMS ArmedServicesVocAptBattery E1625)



Performance
STAAR: A comprehensive testing program for public school students in grades 3–8 or high school
courses with end-of-course (EOC) assessments. The STAAR program is designed to measure to what
extent a student has learned, understood, and is able to apply the concepts and skills expected at each
grade level or after completing each course for which an EOC assessment exists. Each STAAR assessment
is linked directly to the Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills (TEKS). The TEKS are the state-mandated
content standards that describe what a student should know and be able to do upon completion of a
course. For more information on the TEKS, see the Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills website at
http://tea.texas.gov/curriculum/teks/.
Other Important Information:
STAAR (with and without accommodations) and STAAR Alternate 2. The TAPR and the Texas
       Performance Reporting System (TPRS) include performance on STAAR and STAAR Alternate 2.
Spanish STAAR. All STAAR assessments in grades 3, 4, and 5 are available in both English and Spanish.
        The TAPR and the TPRS include performance on the Spanish STAAR.
Rounding of STAAR results. STAAR performance shown on the TAPR and TPRS is rounded to whole
       numbers. For example, 49.877% is rounded to 50%; 49.4999% is rounded to 49%; and 59.5% is
       rounded to 60%.
Masking. STAAR performance rates are masked when necessary to comply with FERPA. For more
information, see the Explanation of Masking at
https://rptsvr1.tea.texas.gov/perfreport/tapr/2025/masking.html.




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                  1 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary

STAAR Performance (2024–25)
The STAAR Performance section displays performance results by grade, subject and performance level
for students in the accountability subset, which are students enrolled in the same district/campus on
both the snapshot date (PEIMS Fall Snapshot) and the testing date. The STAAR Performance–All
Students section of the TPRS displays STAAR performance by grade, subject, and performance level and
includes all students tested, regardless of whether they were in the accountability subset.

STAAR Subjects by Grade:

        Grade 3 – Reading Language Arts (RLA) and Mathematics
        Grade 4 – Reading Language Arts (RLA), and Mathematics
        Grade 5 – Reading Language Arts (RLA), Mathematics, and Science
        Grade 6 – Reading Language Arts (RLA) and Mathematics
        Grade 7 – Reading Language Arts (RLA) and Mathematics
        Grade 8 – Reading Language Arts (RLA), Mathematics, Science, and Social Studies

STAAR End-of-Course (EOC) Subjects:

        English I
        English II
        Algebra I
        Biology
        U.S. History
    Accelerated Testers:
        SAT/ACT
 Percentage at Approaches Grade Level or Above. The percentage of assessments that met or exceeded
       the Approaches Grade Level standard.
 Percentage at Meets Grade Level or Above. The percentage of assessments that met or exceeded the
       Meets Grade Level standard.
 Percentage at Masters Grade Level. The percentage of assessments that met the Masters Grade Level
       standard.
 STAAR Performance Rate by Enrolled Grade at Meets Grade Level or Above on Both Reading and
       Mathematics. The percentage of students who took both the reading and mathematics STAAR
       and met or exceeded the Meets Grade Level standard on both assessments (excluding EOC
       assessments).
 STAAR Performance Rate by Enrolled Grade at Meets Grade Level or Above on Both Reading and
       Mathematics Including EOC. The percentage of students who took both the reading and



Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                2 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
        mathematics STAAR or EOC and met or exceeded the Meets Grade Level standard on both
        assessments.
 STAAR Performance Rate by Enrolled Grade at Meets Grade Level or Above on Reading Including EOC.
       The percentage of students who took the reading STAAR or the English I or II EOC and met or
       exceeded the Meets Grade Level standard.
STAAR Performance Rate by Enrolled Grade at Meets Grade Level or Above on Mathematics Including
       EOC. The percentage of students who took the mathematics STAAR or the Algebra I EOC and
       met or exceeded the Meets Grade Level standard.

Progress (Annual Growth, Accelerated Learning and STAAR Progress
Measure)
School Progress Domain— Annual Growth is the percentage of students who grew academically by at
        least one school year. For STAAR assessments (with or without accommodations), annual
        growth is measured by a transition table. Individual student growth is calculated as the change
        between Low Did Not Meet Grade Level, High Did Not Meet Grade Level, Low Approaches Grade
        Level, High Approaches Grade Level, Meets Grade Level, and Masters Grade Level performance
        from the prior year to the current year.
School Progress Domain—Accelerated Learning is the percentage of students who earned Did Not Meet
        Grade Level in the prior year and were accelerated to Approaches Grade Level or above in the
        current year.
The above measures were used to determine the Annual Growth and Accelerated Learning in the
       Bilingual Education/ESL report.

Bilingual Education/ESL
Bilingual Education (BE): Dual-language program that enables emergent bilingual (EB) students/English
learners (ELs) to become proficient in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in the English language
through the development of literacy and academic skills in the primary language and English. This
category includes the following:
     • BE Trans Early Exit. Bilingual program model in which students identified as EB students/ELs are
        served in both English and another language and are prepared to meet reclassification criteria to
        be successful in English-only instruction not earlier than two or later than five years after the
        student enrolls in school.
     • BE Trans Late Exit. Bilingual program model in which students identified as EB students/ELs are
        served in both English and another language and are prepared to meet reclassification criteria to
        be successful in English-only instruction not earlier than six or later than seven years after the
        student enrolls in school.
     • BE Dual Two-Way. Bilingual/biliteracy program model in which students identified as EB
        students/ELs are integrated with non-EB/non-EL students and are served in both English and
        another language and are prepared to meet reclassification criteria in order to be successful in
        English-only instruction not earlier than six or later than seven years after the student enrolls in
        school. This model provides ongoing instruction in literacy and academic content in English and



Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                     3 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
        another language with at least half of the instruction delivered in the non-English program
        language for the duration of the program.
    •   BE Dual One-Way. Bilingual/biliteracy program model in which students identified as EB
        students/ELs are served in both English and another language and are prepared to meet
        reclassification criteria in order to be successful in English-only instruction not earlier than six or
        later than seven years after the student enrolls in school. This model provides ongoing
        instruction in literacy and academic content in the students' primary language as well as English,
        with at least half of the instruction delivered in the students' primary language for the duration
        of the program.

English as a Second Language (ESL): An English acquisition program that enables emergent bilingual (EB)
students/English learners (ELs) to become proficient in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in the
English language through the integrated use of second language acquisition methods. This category
includes the following:
    • ESL Content-Based. An English acquisition program that serves students identified as EB
         students/ELs through English instruction by a teacher appropriately certified in ESL under TEC,
         §29.061(c), through English language arts and reading, mathematics, science, and social studies.
    • ESL Pull-Out. An English program that serves students identified as EB students/ELs through
         English instruction provided by an appropriately certified ESL teacher under the TEC, §29.061(c),
         through English language arts and reading. Instruction shall be provided by the ESL teacher in a
         pull-out or inclusionary delivery model.

Alternative Language Program (ALP): An alternative language program provided to emergent bilingual
(EB) students/English learners (ELs) for whom the local education agency (LEA) does not have the
appropriately certified teachers for the required bilingual education or English as a second language
(ESL) program for the current school year. This category includes the following:
    • ALP Bilingual (Exception). An alternative language program to the required bilingual education
        (BE) program approved by the TEA for the current school year due to the LEA’s submission of a
        bilingual education exception application.
    • ALP ESL (Waiver). An alternative language program to the required English as a second language
        (ESL) program approved by the TEA for the current school year due to the LEA’s submission of
        an ESL waiver application.

Emergent Bilingual (EB) Students/English Learner (EL): The count and percentage of students whose
primary language is other than English and who are in the process of acquiring English. As a result of the
87th Texas Legislature, the term “emergent bilingual student” replaced the term of “limited English
proficient (LEP) student” used in the Texas Education Code (TEC), Chapter 29, Subchapter B, and thus,
will be changing the term of “English learner (EL)” used in 19 TAC Chapter 89, Subchapter BB. These
terms describe the same group of Texas students. In the revised Texas Education Data Standards (TEDS),
the terms of “emergent bilingual” and “English learner” have been bridged as EB/EL. The term “English
learner” is still used in federal regulations and guidance. This category includes:
     • EB/EL with Parental Denial. Students identified as emergent bilingual (EB) students/English
         learners (ELs) whose parents have denied all bilingual and ESL program services.
     • Never EB/EL. Students who have never been identified as EB students/ELs (non-EB/non-EL
         students).


Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                        4 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
    •   Total EB/EL (Current). Students currently identified as EB students/ELs, including those served in
        a standard or alternative bilingual or ESL program as well as those with a parental denial of
        services.
    •   Monitored & Former EB/EL. Students who were once identified as EB students/ELs but have
        reclassified as English proficient, including students within their four years of state and federal
        monitoring and those beyond monitoring years.

STAAR Participation (2024–25)
This Texas Academic Performance Report (TAPR) provides the State Assessment participation rate as
used in State Accountability. This participation rate includes students who are considered participants
for state reporting purposes but are excluded from the federal participation rate. The report details the
participation rate by All Tests, Reading, Mathematics, Science, Social Studies, and Accelerated Testers
and which assessments and students are included or excluded from accountability.

Assessment Participants
    • STAAR Assessments:
           o Includes STAAR and STAAR Alternate 2 assessments with a score code of "S."
    • STAAR Alternate 2 Assessments:
           o Includes assessments with a score code of "N."
    • STAAR Reading Language Arts (RLA) Assessments:
           o Includes STAAR and STAAR Alternate 2 assessments with a score code of "A" or "O,"
               provided a TELPAS or TELPAS Alternate assessment has a score code of "S."
    • STAAR Mathematics Assessments:
           o Includes assessments with a score code of "A" or "O," provided a TELPAS or TELPAS
               Alternate assessment has a score code of "S” for year 1 asylees/ refugees or students
               with interrupted formal education (SIFEs).
    • Accelerated Testers:
           o This includes Evidence-Based Reading and Writing (EBRW) SAT, English Language Arts
               (ELA) ACT, ACT science, and mathematics SAT and ACT results for students who
               complete a STAAR End-of-Course (EOC) assessment at the Approaches Grade Level or
               above in Algebra I, English II, and/or Biology before grade 9.

Included in Accountability:
    • This represents the state assessment participation rate used in state accountability measures.
    • Includes all of the participants listed above, except for students classified as "Mobile" or under
        "Other Exclusions."

Not Included in Accountability:
    • Mobile: Refers to the percentage of assessments excluded from the "Included in Accountability"
        rate because the students enrolled in the district or campus after the Texas Student Data System
        (TSDS) Public Education Information Management System (PEIMS) fall snapshot date.
    • Other Exclusions: Refers to the percentage of assessments excluded from the "Included in
        Accountability" rate for the following reasons:




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                     5 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
            o   STAAR Assessments (STAAR and STAAR Alternate 2) with score codes "A" or "O" that do
                NOT have a corresponding TELPAS or TELPAS Alternate assessment with a score code of
                "S."
            o   STAAR Alternate 2 assessments with a score code of "N."
            o   Answer documents of students who are an Emergent Bilingual/English learner (EB/EL)
                who has been in school in the U.S. for one year.
            o   Other exclusions specified in the 2025 Accountability Manual — Appendix G.

Not Tested
    • Assessments that are not considered in the participation rate include:
           o Absent: Assessments with a score code of "A."
           o Other: Assessments with a score code of "O."
           o Accelerated Testers: Accelerated testers who did not take an SAT/ACT assessment.

The denominator for participation is the sum of these five categories: Included in Accountability, Mobile,
Other Exclusions, and Not Tested (Absent and Other). STAAR Participation Rate is rounded to a whole
number. For example, 94.49% is rounded to 94%. Small values may show as zero: 0.4% is rounded to 0%,
and 0.6% is rounded to 1%.

Attendance, Graduation, and Dropout Rates (2024–25)
Attendance Rate: The percentage of days that students were present based on student attendance for
the entire school year. Only students in grades 1–12 are included in the calculation.

Attendance is calculated as follows:

      total number of days that students in grades 1–12 were present during the 2023–24 school
                                                 year
      total number of days that students in grades 1–12 were in membership during the 2023–24
                                              school year

(Data source: PEIMS 42400)
Chronic Absenteeism: The unduplicated number of K–12 students enrolled for at least 10 days and
absent for 10 percent or more days. Chronic Absenteeism is calculated as follows:

       total number of K–12 students enrolled for at least 10 days and absent for 10 percent or
                             more days during the 2023–24 school year
      total number of K–12 students enrolled for at least 10 days during the 2023–24 school year

(Data source: PEIMS 42400)
Annual Dropout Rate: The percentage of students who drop out of school during a school year. Annual
dropout rates are shown for districts and campuses that serve grades 7–8 and/or 9–12. State law
prohibits including a student who meets any of the following criteria from campus and district annual
dropout rate calculations:




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                   6 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
    •   Is ordered by a court to attend a high school equivalency certificate program but has not earned
        a high school equivalency certificate
    •   Was previously reported to the state as a dropout (previous dropout exclusions do not apply to
        completion measure calculations for AEA campuses)
    •   Was in attendance but not in membership for purposes of average daily attendance (i.e.,
        students for whom school districts are not receiving state Foundation School Program [FSP]
        funds)
    •   Was initially enrolled in a school in the United States in any grade 7 through 12 as an unschooled
        refugee or asylee as defined by TEC §39.027(a-1)
    •   Attends a district exclusively as a function of having been detained at a county detention facility
        and is not otherwise a student of the district in which the facility is located or is being provided
        services by an open-enrollment charter school exclusively as the result of having been detained
        at the facility
    •   Is incarcerated in a state jail or federal penitentiary as an adult or as a person certified to stand
        trial as an adult
    •   Is a student who has suffered a condition, injury, or illness that requires substantial medical care
        and leaves the student unable to attend school and assigned to a medical or residential
        treatment facility
    •   Is a student in a Texas Juvenile Justice Department facility or residential treatment facility
        served by a Texas public school district
    •   Is at least 18 years of age as of September 1 and has satisfied the credit requirements for high
        school graduation; has not completed his or her individualized education program (IEP); and is
        enrolled and receiving IEP services
    •   Is a student who (a) is at least 18 years of age and under 26 years of age; (b) has not been
        previously reported as a dropout; and (c) has not been enrolled in school during the previous
        nine months before enrolling in a high school equivalency program, a dropout recovery school,
        or an adult education program provided under a high school diploma and industry certification
        charter school program (previous dropout/previous dropout exclusions do not apply to
        completion measure calculations for AEA campuses)
Annual Dropout Rate (Gr 7–8). This includes only grades 7 and 8. It is calculated as follows:
                 number of dropouts in grades 7 and 8 during the 2023–24 school year
   number of students in grades 7 and 8 in attendance at any time during the 2023–24 school year


Annual Dropout Rate (Gr 9–12). This includes grades 9 through 12. It is calculated as follows:
                  number of dropouts in grades 9–12 during the 2023–24 school year
     number of students in grades 9–12 in attendance at any time during the 2023–24 school year




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                         7 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
Both annual dropout rates appear on campus, district, region, and state TAPRs. The state and region
annual dropout rates that are reported on district and campus TAPRs, however, are calculated without
the exclusions required for campus and district calculations.
Note that with all annual dropout rate calculations, a cumulative count of students is used in the
denominator. This method for calculating the dropout rate neutralizes the effect of mobility by including
in the denominator every student ever reported in attendance at the district or campus throughout the
school year, regardless of length of enrollment. For a more complete description of dropout rates and
exclusions, see the Secondary School Completion and Dropouts in Texas Public Schools reports,
available on the TEA website at Completion, Graduation, and Dropout | Texas Education Agency.
For detailed information on data sources, see Appendix H in the 2025 Accountability Manual. (Data
source: PEIMS 40203, 40110, 42400, and 42500)

Longitudinal Rates: The status of a group (cohort) of students after four years in high school (4-Year
Longitudinal Rate), after five years in high school (5-Year Extended Longitudinal Rate), or after six years
in high school (6-Year Extended Longitudinal Rate).
For the 4-Year Longitudinal Rate, the cohort consists of students who first attended ninth grade in
2020–21. They are followed through their expected graduation with the Class of 2024.
For the 5-Year Extended Longitudinal Rate, the cohort consists of students who first attended ninth
grade in 2019–20. They are followed for five years and included if they graduated within a year after
their expected graduation with the Class of 2023.
For the 6-Year Extended Longitudinal Rate, the cohort consists of students who first attended ninth
grade in 2018–19. They are followed for six years and included if they graduated within two years after
their expected graduation with the Class of 2022.
Additional Information on Cohorts:
   A student transfers into a campus, district, or state cohort when he or she moves into the cohort
   from another high school in Texas, from another district in Texas, or from out of state.
   A student transfers out of a campus or district cohort when he or she moves to another public high
   school in Texas or moves to another district in Texas. Note that these students are transferred into
   the cohort of the high school or district to which they moved. There are also students who move out
   of state or out of the country and students who transfer to private schools or who are home-
   schooled. These types of transfer students cannot be tracked and are not included in longitudinal
   rate calculations.
   A student does not change cohorts if he or she repeats or skips a grade. A student who begins with
   the 2020–21 ninth-grade cohort remains with that cohort. A student who started the ninth grade in
   2020–21 but takes 5 years to graduate (i.e., graduates in May 2025) is still part of the 2024 cohort; he
   or she is not switched to the 2025 cohort. This student would be considered a continuing student and
   counted as part of the Continued HS number for the Class of 2024. This is also true for the five-year
   and six-year extended longitudinal cohorts.
There are four student outcomes used in computing each longitudinal rate:
   4-Year Longitudinal Rate




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                      8 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
   (1) Graduated: The percentage who received their high school diploma in four years or fewer by
       August 31, 2024 for the 2024 cohort.
              number of students from the cohort who received a high school diploma by
                                              August 31, 2024

                                 number of students in the 2024 cohort*

   (2) Received TxCHSE: For the 2024 cohort, the percentage who received a Texas high school
       equivalency certificate by August 31, 2024. It is calculated as follows:

            number of students from the cohort who received a TxCHSE by August 31, 2024

                                 number of students in the 2024 cohort*

   (3) Continued High School: The percentage of the 2024 cohort still enrolled as students in the fall
       after his or her anticipated graduation. It is calculated as follows:

  number of students from the cohort who were enrolled in the fall of the 2024–25 school year

                              number of students in the 2024 cohort*

   (4) Dropped Out: The percentage of the 2024 cohort who dropped out and did not return by the fall
       of the 2024–25 school year. It is calculated as follows:

    number of students from the cohort who dropped out before fall of the 2024–25 school
                                            year

                             number of students in the 2024 cohort*

   (5) Graduates & TxCHSE: The percentage of graduates and TxCHSE recipients in the 2024 cohort.
       It is calculated as follows:

       number of students from the 2024 cohort who received a high school diploma by August 31,
          2024 plus number of students from the cohort who received a TxCHSE by August 31, 2024

                                 number of students in the 2024 cohort*




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                   9 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
    (6) Graduates, TxCHSE & Continuers: The percentage of graduates, TxCHSE recipients, and
        continuers in the 2024 cohort. It is calculated as follows:

       number of students from the cohort who received a high school diploma by August 31, 2024
                                                   plus
              number of students from the cohort who received a TxCHSE by August 31, 2024
                                                   plus
        number of students from the cohort who were enrolled in the fall of the 2024–25 school year

                                 number of students in the 2024 cohort*
The graduation rate calculation is modified to credit AEA campuses for graduates, continuing students
(continuers), TxCHSE recipients, and previous dropouts who complete. The completion rate component
includes the four-year rates.

5-Year Extended Longitudinal Rate

   (1) Graduated: The percentage who received their high school diploma by August 31, 2024, for the
       2023 cohort. It is calculated as follows:

       number of students from the cohort who received a high school diploma by August 31, 2024

                                 number of students in the 2023 cohort*

   (2) Received TxCHSE: For the 2023 cohort, the percentage who received a TxCHSE certificate by
       August 31, 2024. It is calculated as follows:

             number of students from the cohort who received a TxCHSE by August 31, 2024

                                 number of students in the 2023 cohort*

   (3) Continued High School: The percentage of the 2023 cohort still enrolled as students in the fall of
       the 2024–25 school year. It is calculated as follows:

      number of students from the cohort who were enrolled in the fall of the 2024–25 school year

                                 number of students in the 2023 cohort*

   (4) Dropped Out: The percentage of the 2023 cohort who dropped out and did not return by the fall
       of the 2024–25 school year. It is calculated as follows:

       number of students from the cohort who dropped out before fall of the 2024–25 school year

                                 number of students in the 2023 cohort*

   (5) Graduates & TxCHSE: The percentage of graduates and TxCHSE recipients in the 2023 cohort. It
       is calculated as follows:


Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                  10 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
       number of students from the cohort who received a high school diploma by August 31, 2024
                                                   plus
              number of students from the cohort who received a TxCHSE by August 31, 2024

                                 number of students in the 2023 cohort*

   (6) Graduates, TxCHSE & Continuers: The percentage of graduates, TxCHSE recipients, and
       continuers in the 2023 cohort. It is calculated as follows:

       number of students from the cohort who received a high school diploma by August 31, 2024
                                                   plus
              number of students from the cohort who received a TxCHSE by August 31, 2024
                                                   plus
         number of students from the cohort who were enrolled in the fall of the 2024–25 school year

                                 number of students in the 2023 cohort*
The graduation rate calculation is modified to credit AEA campuses for graduates, continuing students
(continuers), TxCHSE recipients, and previous dropouts who complete. The completion rate component
includes the five-year rates.

6-year Extended Longitudinal Rate

   (1) Graduated: The percentage who received their high school diploma by August 31, 2024, for the
       2022 cohort. It is calculated as follows:

     number of students from the cohort who received a high school diploma by August 31, 2024

                               number of students in the 2022 cohort*

   (2) Received TxCHSE: For the 2022 cohort, the percentage who received a TxCHSE certificate by
       August 31, 2024. It is calculated as follows:

              number of students from the cohort who received a TxCHSE by August 31, 2024

                                 number of students in the 2022 cohort*

   (3) Continued High School: The percentage of the 2022 cohort still enrolled as students in the fall of
       the 2024–25 school year. It is calculated as follows:

      number of students from the cohort who were enrolled in the fall of the 2024–25 school year

                                 number of students in the 2022 cohort*

   (4) Dropped Out: The percentage of the 2022 cohort who dropped out and did not return by the fall
       of the 2024–25 school year. It is calculated as follows:


Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                  11 of 47
 2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
 (TAPR) Glossary
      number of students from the cohort who dropped out before fall of the 2024–25 school year
                                   number of students in the 2022 cohort*

    (5) Graduates & TxCHSE. The percentage of graduates and TxCHSE recipients in the 2022 cohort. It
        is calculated as follows:

         number of students from the cohort who received a high school diploma by August 31, 2024
                                                     plus
                number of students from the cohort who received a TxCHSE by August 31, 2024

                                   number of students in the 2022 cohort*

 (6) Graduates, TxCHSE & Continuers. The percentage of graduates, TxCHSE recipients, and continuers
     in the 2022 cohort. It is calculated as follows:

         number of students from the cohort who received a high school diploma by August 31, 2024
                                                     plus
                number of students from the cohort who received a TxCHSE by August 31, 2024
                                                     plus
           number of students from the cohort who were enrolled in the fall of the 2024–25 school year

                                   number of students in the 2022 cohort*
The graduation rate calculation is modified to credit AEA campuses for graduates, continuing students
(continuers), TxCHSE recipients, and previous dropouts who complete. The completion rate component
includes the six-year rates.
     *    The cohort in the denominator of the formulas shown above includes those students who
          graduated, continued in school, received a TxCHSE, or dropped out. It does not include data
          errors or leavers with the leaver reason codes 03, 16, 24, 60, 66, 78, 81, 82, 83, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89
          or 90. See Annual Dropout Rate for a list of all the exclusions mandated by state statute for
          districts and campuses.
    The graduation, continuation, TxCHSE recipient, and dropout rates sum to 100% (some totals may
    not equal exactly 100% due to rounding). Students served through special education who graduate
    with an individualized education program (IEP) are included as graduates.
    Additional Information about Federal Graduation Rates
    In addition to the detailed breakdown of the four-, five- and six-year longitudinal rates, the district
    and campus reports show federal graduation rates for the following:

    (1) 4-Year Federal Graduation Rate. Cohort of students who first attended ninth grade in 2020–21.
        They are followed through their expected graduation with the Class of 2024. It is calculated as
        follows:




 Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                      12 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary

       number of students from the cohort who received a high school diploma by August 31, 2024

                                number of students in the 2024 cohort **

   (2) 5-Year Extended Federal Graduation Rate. Cohort of students who first attended ninth grade in
       2019–20. They are followed for five years to see if they graduated within a year after their
       expected graduation with the Class of 2023. It is calculated as follows:



       number of students from the cohort who received a high school diploma by August 31, 2024

                                number of students in the 2023 cohort**

(3) 6-Year Extended Federal Graduation Rate. Cohort of students who first attended ninth grade in
    2018–19. They are followed for six years to see if they graduated within two years after their
    expected graduation with the Class of 2022. It is calculated as follows:

       number of students from the cohort who received a high school diploma by August 31, 2024

                                number of students in the 2022 cohort**

    ** The cohort in the denominator above includes those students who graduated, continued in
       school, received a TxCHSE, or dropped out. It does not include data errors or leavers with leaver
       reason codes 03, 16, 24, 60, 66, 78, 81, 82, 83, 85, 86, 87, or 90. Students with leaver codes 88
       and 89 are included in the federal rates.
   A student in a Texas Juvenile Justice Department facility or residential treatment facility served by a
   Texas public school district is excluded from district and campus graduation rates calculated for
   federal accountability purposes. Students served by special education who graduate with an
   individualized education program (IEP) are included as graduates.
   For further information on these rates, see the Secondary School Completion and Dropouts in Texas
   Public Schools document located on the Completion, Graduation, and Dropout Reports website.
   (Data source: PEIMS 40203 and Texas Certificate of High School Equivalency Information File)

Graduation Program: The percentage of students who graduated under one of the following programs:
   RHSP/DAP Graduates (Longitudinal Rate) (Class of 2024) The percentage of graduates who, after four
      years, satisfied the course requirements for the Recommended High School Program or
      Distinguished Achievement Program.




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                    13 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary

             number of graduates in the Class of 2024 who complete a 4-year RHSP or DAP

               number of graduates in the Class of 2024 with reported graduation plans
                            (excludes graduates with FHSP graduation plans)

   FHSP-E Graduates (Longitudinal Rate) The percentage of graduates who, after four years, satisfied
      the course requirements for the Foundation High School Program with an endorsement.

                number of graduates in the Class of 2024 who complete a 4-year FHSP-E
            number of graduates in the Class of 2024 with reported FHSP graduation plans


   FHSP-DLA Graduates (Longitudinal Rate) The percentage of graduates who, after four years, satisfied
      the course requirements for the Foundation High School Program at the distinguished level of
      achievement.

              number of graduates in the Class of 2024 who complete a 4-year FHSP-DLA
            number of graduates in the Class of 2024 with reported FHSP graduation plans

   RHSP/DAP/FHSP-E/FHSP-DLA/Texas First-DLA Graduates (Longitudinal Rate) The percentage of
      graduates who, after four years, satisfied the course requirements for the Recommended High
      School Program, Distinguished Achievement Program, the Foundation High School Program with
      an endorsement or at the distinguished level of achievement, or the Texas First Early High School
      Completion Program.

           number of graduates in the Class of 2024 who complete a 4-year RHSP or DAP or
                              FHSP-E or FHSP-DLA or Texas First-DLA
               number of graduates in the Class of 2024 with reported graduation plans

   RHSP/DAP Graduates (Annual Rate) (2023-24) The percentage of graduates who satisfied the course
      requirements for the Recommended High School Program or Distinguished Achievement
      Program.

         number of graduates in SY 2023-24 reported with graduation codes for RHSP or DAP

     number of graduates in SY 2023-24 with reported graduation plans (excludes graduates with
                                      FHSP graduation plans)

   FHSP-E Graduates (Annual Rate) (2023–24) The percentage of graduates who satisfied the course
      requirements for the Foundation High School Program with an endorsement.




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                14 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
                        number of graduates in SY 2023–24 who earn an FHSP-E

               number of graduates in SY 2023–24 with reported FHSP graduation plans

   FHSP-DLA Graduates (Annual Rate) (2023–24) The percentage of graduates who satisfied the course
      requirements for the Foundation High School Program at the distinguished level of achievement.

                       number of graduates in SY 2023–24 who earn an FHSP-DLA
               number of graduates in SY 2023–24 with reported FHSP graduation plans

   Texas First-DLA Graduates (Annual Rate) (2023-24) The percentage of graduates who satisfied the
      requirements for the Texas First Early High School Completion Program. Graduates under this
      program are considered to have earned a diploma with a distinguished level of achievement
      under Texas Education Code §28.025.

                     number of graduates in SY 2023–24 who earn a Texas First-DLA

                  number of graduates in SY 2023–24 with reported graduation plans


   RHSP/DAP/FHSP-E/FHSP-DLA/Texas First-DLA Graduates (Annual Rate) (2023–24) The percentage of
      graduates who satisfied the course requirements for the Recommended High School Program,
      Distinguished Achievement Program, the Foundation High School Program with an endorsement
      or at the distinguished level of achievement, or the Texas First Early High School Completion
      Program.
         number of graduates in SY 2023–24 reported with graduation codes for RHSP or DAP
                             or FHSP-E or FHSP-DLA or Texas First-DLA

                  number of graduates in SY 2023–24 with reported graduation plans

RHSP graduates have graduation type codes of 19, 22, 25, 28, or 31; DAP graduates have graduation
type codes of 20, 23, 26, 29, or 32; FHSP graduates are students with graduation type codes of 34, 35,
54, 55, 56, or 57. FHSP graduates with code type 35 are eligible for endorsements starting with the Class
of 2020. Texas First-DLA graduates have graduation type code 40. See the Texas Education Data
Standards for more information. (Data source: PEIMS 40203)
For additional information about graduation programs please see
https://tea.texas.gov/Academics/Graduation_Information/State_Graduation_Requirements.

Graduation Profile
Annual Graduates: The count and percentage of students who graduate at some time during the school
year. It includes summer graduates and is reported by districts in the fall of the following school year. It
includes all students in grade 12 who graduated, as well as graduates from other grades. Students
served by special education who graduate are included in the totals. Counts of students graduating
under the following graduation types in 2023–24 are also shown:


Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                     15 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
    •   Minimum High School Program (MHSP)
    •   Recommended High School Program (RHSP)
    •   Distinguished Achievement Program (DAP)
    •   Foundation High School Program (FHSP)
    •   Texas First Early High School Completion Program (Texas First-DLA)
(Data source: PEIMS 40203)
Special Education: The count and percentage of graduates served by special education programs. (Data
source: PEIMS 41163)
Economically Disadvantaged: The count and percentage of graduates eligible for free or reduced-price
lunch or eligible for other public assistance. (Data source: PEIMS 40100 and STAAR)

   number of graduates in the 2023–24 school year eligible for free or reduced-price lunch or
                                   other public assistance

                       total number of graduates in the 2023-24 school year

Emergent Bilingual (EB)/English Learner (EL): The count and percentage of graduates whose primary
language is other than English and who are in the process of acquiring English. The terms “Emergent
Bilingual,” “English learner” and “Limited English Proficient” (LEP) are used interchangeably. (Data
source: PEIMS 40110)
At-Risk: The count and percentage of graduates identified as being at risk of dropping out of school as
defined by TEC §29.081(d) and (d-1). (Data source: PEIMS 40100)

                 number of graduates in the 2023–24 school year considered as at risk

                          total number of graduates in the 2023-24 school year

CTE Completers: The count and percentage of graduates who completed and passed three or more
Career and Technical Education (CTE) courses for a total of four or more credits within a program of
study, including one level three or level four course from within the same program of study. (Data
source: PEIMS Course Completion Records)

College, Career, or Military* Readiness (CCMR) (2024–25)
Annual graduates demonstrate college, career, or military readiness in any one of the following ways:

College Readiness
        1) Texas Success Initiative (TSI) Criteria: Meet Texas Success Initiative (TSI) Criteria in RLA and
           Mathematics. A student meeting the TSI college readiness standards in both RLA and
           mathematics; specifically, meeting the college-ready criteria on the TSIA1 and/or TSIA2
           assessment, SAT, ACT, or by successfully completing and earning credit for a college prep
           course as defined in TEC §28.014 and TEC §51.338, in both RLA and mathematics. The


Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                    16 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
            criteria for successful completion of a college prep course should be in alignment between
            an LEA and the partnering IHE(s). In accordance with TEC §51.338(e), upon successful
            completion of a college prep course, students earn a TSI exemption from the partnering
            IHE(s) in that content area. Students should only be reported as successfully completing a
            course if they have met TSI exemption requirements. The assessment results considered
            include TSIA1 and/or TSIA2 assessments through October 2024, SAT and ACT results through
            the July 2024 administration, and course completion data via TSDS PEIMS. See Appendix H
            for additional information. A student must meet the TSI requirement for both RLA and
            mathematics but does not necessarily need to meet them on the same assessment. For
            example, a student may meet the TSI criteria for college readiness in RLA on the SAT and
            complete and earn credit for a college prep course in mathematics. (Data source: PEIMS
            43415, THECB, College Board, and ACT, Inc.)
        2) Earn Dual Course Credits: A graduate completing and earning credit for at least three credit
           hours in ELA or mathematics or at least nine credit hours in any subject. (Data source: PEIMS
           43415)
        3) Meet Criteria on Advanced Placement (AP)/International Baccalaureate (IB) Examination:
           A graduate meeting the criterion score on an AP or IB examination in any subject area.
           Criterion score is 3 or more for AP and 4 or more for IB. (Data source: College Board or IB)
        4) Earn an Associate Degree: A graduate earning an associate degree by August 31
           immediately following high school graduation. (Data source: PEIMS 40100)
        5) Earn OnRamps Course Credits: A graduate completing an OnRamps dual enrollment course
           and qualifying for at least three hours of university or college credit in any subject area.
           (Data source: OnRamps program)
        6) Graduates under an Advanced Diploma Plan and Identified as a current Special Education
           Student: A graduate who is identified as receiving special education services during the year
           of graduation and whose graduation plan type is identified as a Recommended High School
           Plan (RHSP), Distinguished Achievement Plan (DAP), Foundation High School Plan with an
           Endorsement (FHSP-E), Foundation High School Plan with a Distinguished Level of
           Achievement (FHSP-DLA), or Texas First Early High School Completion Program (Texas First-
           DLA) (Data source: PEIMS 40203 and 40110)


Career/Military Readiness
        7) Earn an Industry-Based Certification (IBC): A graduate earning an IBC under 19 TAC,
           §74.1003 and earned credit in a level 2 course or higher in an aligned Program of Study
           applies to the 2024 graduates. Alignment is determined by the IBC Crosswalk, which maps
           approved IBCs to their corresponding Programs of Study. The student must have earned the
           IBC associated with the Program of Study and also met the phase-in requirement. See
           Appendix J for a complete list of approved IBCs. The sunsetting IBC limit applied within the
           Student Achievement and School Progress, Part B: Relative Performance domains is not
           applied within Closing the Gaps. For prior graduating class IBC requirements please refer to
           “Chapter 2—Student Achievement Domain”. (Data source: PEIMS 40100)




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                 17 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
        8) Graduate with Completed IEP and Workforce Readiness: A graduate receiving a graduation
           type code of 04, 05, 54, or 55 which indicates the student has completed his/her IEP and has
           either demonstrated self-employment with self-help skills to maintain employment or has
           demonstrated mastery of specific employability and self-help skills that do not require
           public school services. (Data source: PEIMS 40203)
        9) Graduate with Level I or Level II Certificate: A graduate earning a level I or level II
           certificate in any workforce education area. (Data source: THECB)
        10) Enlist in the Armed Forces A graduate enlisting in the U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast
            Guard, Marines, Space Force, Texas National Guard or Reserves for their respective services.
            (Data source: Department of Defense (DoD) Form 4 Submission).

College, Career, or Military Ready Graduates
College, Career, or Military Ready (Student Achievement): The percentage of annual graduates who
demonstrated college, career, or military readiness by meeting at least one of the nine criteria described
in College, Career, or Military Readiness.

Only College Ready: The percentage of annual graduates who demonstrated only college readiness by
meeting college ready criteria 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 but did not meet any of the career and military ready
criteria 7, 8, 9 or 10 described in College, Career, or Military Readiness.

Only Career/Military Ready: The percentage of annual graduates who demonstrated only career or
military readiness by meeting career or military ready criteria 7, 8, 9 or 10 but did not meet any of the
college ready criteria 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 described in College, Career, or Military Readiness.

College Ready Graduates
College Ready: The percentage of annual graduates who demonstrated college readiness by meeting
criteria 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 described in College, Career, or Military Readiness. This percentage includes
graduates who may have met career or military ready criteria 7, 8, 9 or 10. (Data source: PEIMS 43415,
40100, 40203, and 40110, THECB, College Board, ACT, IB and OnRamps)

TSI Criteria Graduates: The percentage of annual graduates who met or exceeded the college-ready
criteria on the Texas Success Initiative Assessment (TSIA1 and/or TSIA2), the SAT, ACT, or by successfully
completing and earning credit for a college prep course as defined in TEC §28.014, in both ELA and
mathematics. The criteria for each are as follows:




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                     18 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary

                                                TSI Criteria

   TSIA1 and/or
                                     SAT                           ACT              College Prep Course
       TSIA2

                                                                Before Feb
                                                                 15, 2023
                                                                >=19 on
                                                               English and
                                >=480 on the                     >= 23
       >= ELAR                                                 Composite             Complete and earn
                               Evidence-Based
   criteria shown     or                              or                       or   credit for ELA college
                             Reading and Writing               After Feb 15,
        below                                                                           prep course
                                   (EBRW)                          2023
                                                                 English +
                                                                 Reading
                                                                Combined
                                                                score >=40

                                                                Before Feb
                                                                 15, 2023
                                                                 >=19 on
          >=                                                   Mathematics          Complete and earn
    Mathematics                  >=530 on                        and >=23               credit for
                      or                              or        Composite      or
   criteria shown               Mathematics                                         mathematics college
        below                                                  After Feb 15,           prep course
                                                                   2023
                                                               Mathematics
                                                               score >=22




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                     19 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary

                  Assessment
    Subject                                     Score Requirements for CCMR
                    Version
                     TSIA1   Score ≥ 351 on Reading
                                  Score ≥ 945 on the ELAR
                                                                                                 Score ≥ 5 on the
                                     College Readiness                      AND
                                                                                                      essay
                                    Classification (CRC)
                      TSIA2                                               OR
    English                                                                                               Score ≥ 5
                                  Score < 945 on the ELAR                       Score ≥ 5 on
   Language                                                         AND                          AND       on the
                                            CRC                                the diagnostic
    Arts and                                                                                                essay
    Reading
                                  Score ≥ 945 on the ELAR                                        Score ≥ 5 on the
     (ELAR)                                                                 AND
                                     CRC on the TSIA2                                              TSIA1 essay
                                                                          OR
                  Combination                                                                             Score ≥ 5
                                                                                Score ≥ 5 on
                                  Score < 945 on the ELAR                                                  on the
                                                                    AND        the diagnostic    AND
                                     CRC on the TSIA2                                                       TSIA1
                                                                                on the TSIA2
                                                                                                            essay
                                        Score ≥ 350 on
                      TSIA1
                                         Mathematics
                                     Score ≥ 950 on the
 Mathematics                         Mathematics CRC
                      TSIA2                                               OR
                                     Score < 950 on the                         Score = 6 on
                                                                    AND
                                     Mathematics CRC                           the diagnostic

The percentages are calculated as follows:

   English Language Arts.
  number of 2023-24 annual graduates who met or exceeded the college-ready criteria on the TSIA1 and/or TSIA2, SAT,
                ACT, or by successfully completing and earning credit for a college prep course in ELA

                                         number of 2023-24 annual graduates


   Mathematics.
     number of 2023-24 annual graduates who met or exceeded the college-ready criteria on the TSIA1 and/or TSIA2,
          SAT, ACT, or by successfully completing and earning credit for a college prep course in mathematics

                                         number of 2023-24 annual graduates




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                               20 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
   Both Subjects.
   number of 2023-24 annual graduates who met or exceeded the college-ready criteria on the TSIA1 and/or TSIA2, SAT,
      ACT, or by successfully completing and earning credit for a college prep course in both ELA and mathematics


                                          number of 2023-24 annual graduates


   Any Subject.
   number of 2023-24 annual graduates who met or exceeded the college-ready criteria on the TSIA1 and/or TSIA2, SAT,
         ACT, or by successfully completing and earning credit for a college prep course in ELA or mathematics

                                          number of 2023-24 annual graduates



AP/IB Criteria Met in Any Subject: The percentage of annual graduates who earned a 3 or more on an
AP examination or a 4 or more on an IB examination. (Data source: College Board and IB)

        number of 2023-24 annual graduates who earned a 3 or more on an AP examination or a 4 or more on an IB
                                                   examination

                                          number of 2023-24 annual graduates

Associate Degree: The percentage of annual graduates who earned an associate degree by August 31
immediately following high school graduation. (Data source: PEIMS 40100)

             number of 2023-24 annual graduates who earned an associate degree by August 31 immediately
                                          following high school graduation.

                                          number of 2023-24 annual graduates

Dual Course Credits: A graduate completing and earning credit for at least three credit hours in ELA or
mathematics or at least nine credit hours in any subject. (Data source: PEIMS 43415)


 number of 2023-24 annual graduates who completed and earned credit for nine or more hours of dual credit in any subject
                                     or three or more hours in ELA or mathematics
                                          Number of 2023-24 annual graduates



OnRamps Course Credits: The percentage of annual graduates who completed an OnRamps dual
enrollment course and qualified for at least three hours of university or college credit in any subject area
(Data source: OnRamps program)

             number of 2023-24 annual graduates who completed an OnRamps course and qualified for three
                                       hours of college credit before graduation

                                          number of 2023-24 annual graduates




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                                21 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
Graduates Under an Advanced Diploma Plan and be Identified as a Current Special Education Student:
The percentage of annual graduates under an advanced diploma plan and identified as a current special
education student (Data source: PEIMS 40203 and 42401)

            number of 2023-24 annual graduates who graduated under an advanced diploma plan and were
                                 identified as a current special education student

                                         number of 2023-24 annual graduates


Career/Military Ready Graduates
Career or Military Ready Graduates: The percentage of annual graduates who demonstrated career or
military readiness by meeting criteria 7, 8, 9 or 10 described in College, Career, or Military Readiness.
This percentage includes graduates who may have met college ready criteria 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6.

Approved Industry-Based Certification: The percentage of annual graduates who earned an approved
industry-based certification and earned credit in a level 2 course or higher in an aligned Program of
Study. For additional information, see Chapter 2 of the 2025 Accountability Manual. (Data source: PEIMS
48011)

               number of 2023-24 annual graduates who earned an approved industry-based certification

                                         number of 2023-24 annual graduates

Graduates with Level I or Level II Certificate: The percentage of annual graduates who earned a level I
or level II certificate (Data source: THECB)

                     number of 2023-24 annual graduates who earned a level I or level II certificate

                                         number of 2023-24 annual graduates

Graduates with Completed IEP and Workforce Readiness: The percentage of annual graduates who
received a graduation type code of 04, 05, 54, or 55. For additional information, see Chapter 2 of the
2025 Accountability Manual. (Data source: PEIMS 40203)

             number of 2023-24 annual graduates who received a graduation type code of 04, 05, 54, or 55

                                         number of 2023-24 annual graduates

U.S. Armed Forces Enlistment (Annual Graduates): The percentage of annual graduates who enlist in
the U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, Marines, Space Force, Texas National Guard, or Reserves
for their respective services. (Data source: Department of Defense (DoD) Form 4 Submission).

           number of 2023-24 annual graduates enlisting in the U.S. Armed Forces or Texas National Guard by
                             December 31 immediately following high school graduation

                                         number of 2023-24 annual graduates




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                              22 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
CCMR-related Indicators (2024–25)
TSIA Results (Graduates >= Criterion) (Annual Graduates): The percentage of annual graduates who
met the TSI criteria on the TSIA1 and/or TSIA2 (Data source: THECB and PEIMS 40203)
English Language Arts.
  number of 2023-24 annual graduates who met or exceeded the college-ready criteria on the TSIA1 and/or TSIA2 in ELA
                                         number of 2023-24 annual graduates

Mathematics.
    number of 2023-24 annual graduates who met or exceeded the college-ready criteria on the TSIA1 and/or TSIA2 in
                                                   mathematics

                                         number of 2023-24 annual graduates



Both Subjects.
  number of 2023-24 annual graduates who met or exceeded the college-ready criteria on the TSIA1 and/or TSIA2 in both
                                               ELA and mathematics

                                         number of 2023-24 annual graduates

Completed and Received Credit for College Prep Courses (Annual Graduates): The percentage of
annual graduates who completed and earned credit for a college prep course as defined in TEC §28.014
in either ELA or mathematics or both. (Data source: PEIMS 43415)
English Language Arts.

    number of 2023-24 annual graduates who completed and earned credit for a college prep course as defined in TEC
                                                 §28.014 in ELA

                                         number of 2023-24 annual graduates

Mathematics.
    number of 2023-24 annual graduates who completed and earned credit for a college prep course as defined in TEC
                                             §28.014 in mathematics

                                         number of 2023-24 annual graduates

Both Subjects.
    number of 2023-24 annual graduates who completed and earned credit for a college prep course as defined in TEC
                                         §28.014 in ELA and mathematics

                                         number of 2023-24 annual graduates

AP/IB Results (Participation) (Grades 11–12): The percentage of students in grades 11 and 12
who took the College Board’s Advanced Placement (AP) examinations or the International
Baccalaureate’s (IB) examinations. (Data source: College Board and IB)




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                               23 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
All Subjects.
       number of students in grades 11 & 12 in the 2023-24 school year who took at least one AP or IB examination

                                         total students enrolled in grades 11 & 12

English Language Arts.
 number of students in grades 11 & 12 in the 2023-24 school year who took at least one AP or IB examination in
                                                     ELA
                                       total students enrolled in grades 11 & 12



Mathematics.
 number of students in grade 11 & 12 in the 2023-24 school year who took at least one AP or IB examination in
                                                mathematics
                                       total students enrolled in grades 11 & 12



Science.
 number of students in grade 11 & 12 in the 2023-24 school year who took at least one AP or IB examination in
                                                   science
                                       total students enrolled in grades 11 & 12



Social Studies.
 number of students in grade 11 & 12 in the 2023-24 school year who took at least one AP or IB examination in
                                                social studies
                                       total students enrolled in grades 11 & 12

(Data source: College Board, IB, and PEIMS 40110)

AP/IB Results (Examinees >= Criterion) (Grades 11–12): The percentage of students with at least one AP
or IB examination in grades 11 and 12 at or above the criterion score. High school students may take one
or more of these examinations, ideally upon completion of AP or IB courses, and may receive advanced
placement or credit, or both, upon entering college. Generally, colleges will award credit or advanced
placement for scores of 3, 4, or 5 on AP examinations and scores of 4, 5, 6, or 7 on IB examinations.
Requirements vary by college and by subject tested. (Data source: College Board and IB)
   All Subjects.
     number of 11th and 12th graders in the 2023-24 school year with at least one AP or IB score at or above criterion

                         number of 11th and 12th graders with at least one AP or IB examination

   English Language Arts.
    number of 11th and 12th graders in the 2023-24 school year with at least one AP or IB score at or above criterion in
                                                          ELA

                      number of 11th and 12th graders with at least one AP or IB examination in ELA




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                                    24 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
   Mathematics.
    number of 11th and 12th graders in the 2023-24 school year with at least one AP or IB score at or above criterion in
                                                     mathematics

                   number of 11th and 12th graders with at least one AP or IB examination in mathematics

   Science.
    number of 11th and 12th graders in the 2023-24 school year with at least one AP or IB score at or above criterion in
                                                        science

                      number of 11th and 12th graders with at least one AP or IB examination in science

   Social Studies.
    number of 11th and 12th graders in the 2023-24 school year with at least one AP or IB score at or above criterion in
                                                     social studies

                   number of 11th and 12th graders with at least one AP or IB examination in social studies


(Data source: The College Board, The International Baccalaureate Organization, and PEIMS 40110)

AP/IB Results (11th & 12th Graders >= Criterion): The percentage of students enrolled in grades 11 and
12 with at least one AP or IB score at or above the criterion score. This denominator includes students
enrolled in grades 11 and 12 who did not take AP or IB examination. High school students may take one
or more of these examinations, ideally upon completion of AP or IB courses, and may receive advanced
placement or credit, or both, upon entering college. Generally, colleges will award credit or advanced
placement for scores of 3, 4, or 5 on AP examinations and scores of 4, 5, 6, or 7 on IB examinations.
Requirements vary by college and by subject tested. (Data source: College Board and IB)
   All Subjects.
      number of 11th and 12th graders in the 2023-24 school year with at least one AP or IB score at or above criterion

                                        total students enrolled in 11th and 12th grades

SAT/ACT Results (Annual Graduates): Participation and performance of annual graduates from all Texas
public schools on the College Board’s SAT and ACT, Inc.’s ACT assessment. ACT and SAT scores are based
on each student’s highest section scores across all exams taken, and the SAT total and ACT composite
scores are calculated using the highest section scores.
   (1) Tested: The percentage of graduates who took either college admissions assessment:
                             number of 2023-24 graduates who took either the SAT or the ACT

                                           number of 2023-24 graduates reported

   (2) At/Above Criterion for All Graduates: The percentage of graduates who scored at or above the
       criterion score of 480 on the SAT evidence-based reading and writing or 19 on ACT English
       section and 23 on the ACT composite (before February 15, 2023) and 530 on SAT mathematics
       or 19 on ACT Mathematics section and 23 on the ACT composite (before February 15, 2023).
       After February 15, 2023, the percentage of graduates who scored at or above the criterion score
       of 40 on ACT English and Reading Combined and at or above 22 on ACT Mathematics:


Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                                     25 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
                   number of 2023-24 graduating examinees who scored at or above the criterion score
                                             on either the SAT or the ACT

                                         number of 2023-24 graduates reported


Average SAT Score (Annual Graduates): Performance of annual graduates from all Texas public schools
on the College Board’s SAT assessment. If a student takes the SAT more than once, the best result by
subject area is selected, and the SAT total is calculated as the sum of the highest section scores.
   (1) All Subjects: The average score for the SAT evidence-based reading and writing and mathematics
       combined. The maximum score is 1600.
  sum of SAT total scores (evidence-based reading and writing + mathematics) of all 2023-24 graduates who took the SAT

                                     number of 2023-24 graduates who took the SAT

   (2) English Language Arts and Writing: The average score for the SAT evidence-based reading and
       writing. The maximum score is 800.
              sum of SAT evidence-based reading and writing scores of all 2023-24 graduates who took the
                                                         SAT

                                            number of 2023-24 graduates who took the SAT

   (3) Mathematics: The average score for the SAT mathematics. The maximum score is 800.
                       sum of SAT mathematics scores of all 2023-24 graduates who took the SAT

                                     number of 2023-24 graduates who took the SAT

(Data source: College Board and PEIMS 40203)

Average ACT Score (Annual Graduates): Performance of annual graduates from all Texas public schools
on the ACT Inc.’s ACT assessment. If a student takes the ACT more than once, the best result by subject
area is selected, and the ACT composite scores is calculated as the average of the highest section scores.

    (1) All Subjects: The average score for the ACT composite. The maximum score is 36.
                      sum of ACT composite scores of all 2023-24 graduates who took the ACT

                                  number of 2023-24 graduates who took the ACT

    (2) English Language Arts: The average score for the ACT English and reading combined. The
        maximum score is 36.
            sum of ACT English and reading combined scores of all 2023-24 graduates who took the ACT

                                  number of 2023-24 graduates who took the ACT

    (3) Mathematics: The average score for the mathematics ACT. The maximum score is 36.
                     sum of ACT mathematics scores of all 2023-24 graduates who took the ACT

                                  number of 2023-24 graduates who took the ACT




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                                26 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
    (4) Science: The average score for the science ACT. The maximum score is 36.
                         sum of ACT science scores of all 2023-24 graduates who took the ACT

                                   number of 2023-24 graduates who took the ACT



Other Postsecondary Indicators (2024–25)
Advanced/Dual-Credit Course Completion (Grades 9–12): The percentage of students who completed
and received credit for at least one advanced or dual-credit course. Decisions about awarding high
school credit for college courses are described in Texas Administrative Code §74.25.
Appendix A lists all courses identified as advanced courses. Courses for which a student can earn dual
credit are not listed because they vary from campus to campus.
Course completion information is reported by districts through the PEIMS after the close of the school
year. For example, the values, expressed as percentages for grades 9–12, are calculated as follows:
(Data source: PEIMS 43415)
Any Subject.

                       number of students in grades 9–12 in 2023-24 who received credit for at least
                                            one advanced/dual-credit course

                  number of students in grades 9–12 who received credit for at least one course in 2023-24


English Language Arts.

                       number of students in grades 9–12 in 2023-24 who received credit for at least
                                          one ELA advanced/dual-credit course

               number of students in grades 9–12 who received credit for at least one ELA course in 2023-24

Mathematics.

                       number of students in grades 9–12 in 2023-24 who received credit for at least
                                     one mathematics advanced/dual-credit course

           number of students in grades 9–12 who received credit for at least one mathematics course in 2023-24


Science.

                       number of students in grades 9–12 in 2023-24 who received credit for at least
                                       one science advanced/dual-credit course

             number of students in grades 9–12 who received credit for at least one science course in 2023-24


Social Studies.




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                                  27 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
                     number of students in grades 9–12 in 2023-24 who received credit for at least
                                   one social studies advanced/dual-credit course

         number of students in grades 9–12 who received credit for at least one social studies course in 2023-24

(Data source: PEIMS 43415)

Graduates Enrolled in Texas Institution of Higher Education (TX IHE): The percentage of students who
enrolled and began instruction at an institution of higher education in Texas for the school year
following high school graduation.

              number of graduates during the 2022-23 school year who attended a public or independent
                            college or university in Texas in the following academic year

                                  number of graduates during the 2022-23 school year


Students who enrolled in out-of-state colleges or universities or any non-public career school are not
included. Students who attend public community colleges in Texas are included.
(Data source: THECB)
Additional reports showing students enrolled in Texas public colleges and universities are available on
the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) site at
http://www.txhighereddata.org/generatelinks.cfm?Section=HS2Col.
For more information on the data used in this indicator, contact the Texas Higher Education
Coordinating Board at (512) 427-6153. (Data source: THECB)

Student Information (2024–25)
Please note, the Enrollment section of this report was added beginning with 2019–20. The definitions
below describe the nuances between Membership and Enrollment. If comparing the data shown from
this year’s report to reports prior to 2019–2020, use the data displayed under Membership.

Enrollment: Students reported as enrolled as of the last Friday in October

Membership: Membership differs from enrollment, as it does not include those students who are
served for less than two hours per day. A student is in membership if he/she is enrolled and is either

        • scheduled to attend at least two hours of instruction each school day or

        • participating in an alternative attendance accounting program.

For example, the count of Total Students excludes students who attend a non-public school but receive
some services, such as speech therapy—for less than two hours per day—from their local school district.

Total Students: The total number of public school students who were reported at any grade from early
childhood education through grade 12. (Data source: PEIMS Student Entity)

Students by Grade: The count of students in each grade divided by the total number of students. (Data
source: PEIMS StudentSchoolAssociation Entity)


Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                                   28 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
Ethnic Distribution: The number and percentage of students who are identified as belonging to one of
the following groups: African American, Hispanic, white, American Indian, Asian, Pacific Islander, and
two or more races. (Data source: PEIMS StudentEducationOrganizationAssociation Entity)

Male/Female: The number and percentage of students who are identified as male or female. (Data
source: PEIMS StudentEducationOrganizationAssociation Entity)

Economically Disadvantaged: The count and percentage of students eligible for free or reduced-price
lunch or eligible for other public assistance.
      number of students eligible for free or reduced-price lunch or other public assistance
                                      total number of students

(Data source: PEIMS StudentEducationOrganizationAssociation Entity and TEA Student Assessment
Division)

Non-Educationally Disadvantaged: Those students not eligible to participate in free or reduced-price
lunch or to receive any other public assistance. This is the complementary count and percentage to
Economically Disadvantaged.

Section 504 Students: The count and percentage of students identified as receiving section 504 services.
(Data source: PEIMS StudentEducationOrganizationAssociation Entity)

Emergent bilingual students/English learner (EB/EL) : The count and percentage of students whose
primary language is other than English and who are in the process of acquiring English. The terms
“English Learner” (EL) and “Emergent Bilingual” (EB) are used interchangeably.
The percentage of EB/ELs is calculated by dividing the number of EB/ELs by the total number of students
in the district or campus. Not all students identified as EB/ELs receive bilingual or English as a second
language instruction. (Data source: TELPAS file)

Students with Disciplinary Placements: The count and percentage of students placed in alternative
education programs under Chapter 37 of the Texas Education Code (Discipline; Law and Order). Districts
report the disciplinary actions taken toward students who are removed from the classroom for at least
one day. Although students can have multiple removals throughout the year, this measure counts
students only once and includes only those whose removal results in a placement in a disciplinary
alternative education program or juvenile justice alternative education program. It is calculated as
follows:

                     number of students with one or more disciplinary placements
            number of students who were in attendance at any time during the school year
For 2024–25, the following 19 disciplinary action codes are included as disciplinary placements: 02, 03,
04, 07, 08, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 57, 59, 60, and 61. (Data source: PEIMS DisciplineAction
Entity)




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                     29 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
Students with Dyslexia: The count and percentage of students identified with Dyslexia. (Data source:
PEIMS StudentEducationOrganizationAssociation Entity)

Foster Care: The count and percentage of students identified as in the conservatorship of the
Department of Family and Protective Services (DFPS). (Data source: PEIMS
StudentEducationOrganizationAssociation Entity)

Homeless: The count and percentage of students meeting the criteria defined by 42 U.S.C. Section
11434(a), the term “homeless children and youths” —
       (A) individuals who lack a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence [within the meaning
       of section 11302(a)(1)]; and
       (B) includes —
                (i) children and youths who are sharing the housing of other persons due to loss of
                housing, economic hardship, or a similar reason; are living in motels, hotels, trailer
                parks, or camping grounds due to the lack of alternative adequate accommodations; are
                living in emergency or transitional shelters;
                (ii) children and youths who have a primary nighttime residence that is a public or
                private place not designed for or ordinarily used as a regular sleeping accommodation
                for human beings [within the meaning of section 11302(a)(2) (C)];
                (iii) children and youths who are living in cars, parks, public spaces, abandoned
                buildings, substandard housing, bus or train stations, or similar settings; and
                (iv) migratory children (as such term is defined in section 6399 of title 20) who qualify as
                homeless for the purposes of this subtitle because the children are living in
                circumstances described in clauses (i) through (iii).
(Data source: PEIMS StudentEducationOrganizationAssociation Entity)
Immigrant: The count and percentage of students identified under the definition found under
Title III of the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 (NCLB), where the term ‘immigrant children and youth’ is
defined as, “individuals who are aged 3 through 21; were not born in any state; and have not been
attending one or more schools in any one or more states for more than 3 full academic years.” The term
‘State’ means each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(Data source: PEIMS StudentEducationOrganizationAssociation Entity)

Migratory: The count and percentage of students that meet the following criteria: Student is (ages 3-
21), or the student's parent, spouse, or guardian is a migratory agricultural worker, including a migratory
dairy worker, or a migratory fisher, and who, in the preceding 36 months, in order to obtain, or
accompany such parent, spouse, or guardian in order to obtain, temporary or seasonal employment in
agricultural or fishing work: 1) has moved from one school district to another; or 2) resides in a school
district of more than 15,000 square miles, and migrates a distance of 20 miles or more to a temporary
residence to engage in a fishing activity. (Data source: PEIMS StudentEducationOrganizationAssociation
Entity)




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                    30 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
Title I: The count and percentage of students participating in a program authorized under Elementary
and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), Title I, Part A of the Improving America's Schools Act. (Data source:
PEIMS StudentTitleIPartAProgramAssociation Entity)

Military Connected: The count and percentage of students who are dependents of an active duty or
former member of the United States military, the Texas National Guard, or a reserve force of the United
States military, or who are dependents of a member of the United States military, the Texas National
Guard, or a reserve force of the United States military who was killed in the line of duty. (Data source:
PEIMS StudentEducationOrganizationAssociation Entity)

At-Risk: The count and percentage of students identified as being at risk of dropping out of school as
defined by TEC §29.081(d) and (d-1).

                  number of students in the 2024–25 school year considered as at risk
                                          total number of students

(Data source: PEIMS StudentEducationOrganizationAssociation Entity)


Student by Instructional Program:
The count and percentage of students served in programs and/or courses for special education, career
and technical education, career and technical education (grades 9– 12 only), bilingual/ESL education, or
gifted and talented education. The percentages do not total to 100 because students may participate in
more than one of these programs. (Data source: TSDS PEIMS StudentSchoolAssociation Entity,
StudentSpecialEducationProgramAssociation Entity and StudentCTEProgramAssociation Entity)

Students with Disabilities by Type of Primary Disability: The count of students disaggregated by
primary disability. The TAPR and Texas Performance Reporting System (TPRS) uses five categories of
primary disability: Students with Intellectual Disabilities, Students with Physical Disabilities, Students
with Autism, Students with Behavioral Disabilities, and Students with Non-Categorical Early Childhood.
Additional information is provided below.
Students with Intellectual Disabilities (PEIMS disability codes 06, 08, 12, 13)
    •   06—Intellectual Disability (ID)
    •   08—Specific Learning Disability (LD)
    •   12—Developmental Delay (DD)
    •   13—Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI)
Students with Physical Disabilities (PEIMS disability codes 01, 03, 04, 05, 09)
    •   01—Orthopedic Impairment (OI)
    •   03—Deaf and Hard of Hearing (DHH)
    •   04—Visual Impairment (VI)



Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                    31 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
    •   05—Deaf-Blindness (DB)
    •   09—Speech or Language Impairment
Students with Autism (PEIMS disability code 10)
    •   10—Autism (AU)
Students with Behavioral Disabilities (PEIMS disability codes 02 and 07)
    •   02—Other Health Impairment (OHI)
    •   07—Emotional Disturbance (ED)
Students with Noncategorical Early Childhood (PEIMS disability code 14)
    •   14—Noncategorical Early Childhood (NCES)

(Data source: PEIMS StudentSpecialEducationProgramAssociation Entity)

Mobility: The count and percentage of students who have been in membership for less than 83 percent
of the school year (i.e., missed six or more weeks).



                                 number of mobile students in 2023–24
                  number of students who were in membership at any time during the
                                           2023–24 school year

This rate is calculated at the state, region, district, and campus level and is disaggregated by
race/ethnicity, economically disadvantaged status, special education status, and emergent bilingual
students/English learner status. The mobility rates shown are based on the count of mobile students
identified at the campus level. The district mobility rate reflects school-to-school mobility within the
same district or from outside the district. The region mobility rate reflects school-to-school mobility
within the same region or from outside the region. (Data source: PEIMS
BasicReportingPeriodAttendanceExtension Entity)

 Attrition Rate: The percentage of students enrolled in fall 2022-23 who did not return to the same
campus in the fall of 2023-24. This calculation is adjusted to account for the grade levels available to
students at each campus as well as additional factors. For instance, students were excluded from the
calculation if the campus in which they were enrolled in 2022-23 did not offer the next grade they were
expected to move into in 2023-24 or if they were at a campus in 2022-23 that was no longer active in
2023-24. Students who were retained in grade, including those in Grade 12, remained in the calculation.

Some campuses may not receive an attrition rate because all of their students are excluded from the
attrition denominator due to their subsequent grade level not being offered at that campus in 2023-24.
Examples of such campuses are campuses that serve single grade levels or campuses that changed the
grades offered in 2023-24. Attrition Rate is calculated as follows:




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                    32 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary

        number of students enrolled in fall 2023 – number of students who returned in fall 2024
                                 number of students enrolled in fall 2023

Aggregations of campus denominators and numerators are created for district, region and state levels,
and rates for each of those levels are calculated from these sums.


Retention Rates by Grade: The percentage of students in Texas public schools who enrolled in fall 2024
in the same grade in which they were reported for the last six-week period of the prior school year
(2023–24).

           number of students enrolled in the same grade from one school year to the next
    number of students enrolled from one school year who return the next year or who graduate

Special education retention rates are calculated and reported separately because local retention
practices differ for students served by special education.
The TAPR and TPRS show retention rates only for grades K–9. Retention rates for all grades can be found
in Grade-Level Retention in Texas Public Schools available from TEA. (Data source: PEIMS
StudentSchoolAssociation Entity)

Data Quality (not on campus profile): The percentage of errors made by the district in the PEIMS
Student Leaver Data.

Percent of Underreported Students. Underreported students are 7th–12th graders who were enrolled at
      any time during the prior year, who are not accounted for through district records or TEA
      processing in the current year, and for whom the district did not submit a leaver record. A district
      is required to submit a leaver record for any student served in grades 7–12 the previous year
      unless the student received a Texas high school equivalency certificate (TxCHSE) certificate by
      August 31, is a previous Texas public school graduate, moved to and enrolled in another Texas
      public school district, or returned to the district by the end of the school start window. (For
      2023–24 the end of the school-start window was September 27, 2024)
                                      number of underreported students
       number of students in grades 7–12 who were served in the district in the 2023–24 school year

(Data source: Texas High School Equivalency Certificate Information File; PEIMS
StudentEducationOrganizationAssociation Entity, StudentSchoolAssociation Entity,
BasicReportingPeriodAttendance Entity, and SpecialProgramsReportingPeriodAttendanceExtension)

Class Size Averages by Grade and Subject: The average class size by grade (elementary) or selected
subjects (secondary classes).



Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                   33 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
For secondary classes, averages are determined by totaling the number of students served (in a subject
at the campus) and dividing that sum by the count of classes for that subject.
For elementary classes, the average is determined based on the instructional model. If an elementary
teacher teaches all subjects to the same group of fourth graders all day, the class size average is simply
the number of fourth grade students served by that teacher. If an elementary teacher teaches a single
subject to five different sections of fourth graders each day, however, the average is calculated the
same way as for secondary subjects. For example, one fourth grade science teacher teaches five science
classes each day with 18, 20, 19, 21, and 22 students in each class. The total of 100 students divided by
the five classes produces an average class size of 20 students for that teacher.
The following rules apply to the average class sizes:
   •   Classes identified as serving regular, compensatory/remedial, gifted and talented, career and
       technical, and honors students are included in the calculation.
   •   English language arts (ELA), mathematics, science, social studies, languages other than English,
       computer science, and career and technical education are included in the calculation, as are self-
       contained classrooms.
   •   Classes where the number of students served is reported as zero are not included.
   •   Service codes with the “SR” prefix are not included.
   •   Teacher roles coded as “teacher” and/or “substitute teacher” are included.
   •   Only class settings coded as “regular class” are included.
   •   Missing partial FTE counts are not included.
   •   Elementary classes in which the number of students exceeds 100 are not included.
   •   Mixed grade-level class averages are not included.
   (Data source: PEIMS StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation Entity and
       StaffSectionAssociation Entity)

Staff Information (2024–25)
Total Staff: The total count of staff which includes professional staff (teachers, professional support,
administrators), educational aides, and (on the district profile) auxiliary staff. (Data source: PEIMS Staff
Entity, StaffEducationOrganizationEmploymentAssociation Entity,
StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation Entity, and StaffSectionAssociation Entity)
Professional Staff: The full-time equivalent (FTE) count of teachers, professional support staff, campus
administrators, and on the district profile, central office administrators. Staff are grouped according to
roles as reported in PEIMS. Each type of professional staff is shown as a percentage of the total staff
FTE. See Appendix B for all PEIMS Role IDs. (Data source: PEIMS Staff Entity,
StaffEducationOrganizationEmploymentAssociation Entity,
StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation Entity, and StaffSectionAssociation Entity)

Educational Aides: The count and percentage of paraprofessional staff who are reported with a role of
033 (Educational Aide) or 036 (Certified Interpreter). The FTE counts of educational aides are expressed



Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                      34 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
as a percentage of the total staff FTEs. See Appendix B for all PEIMS Role IDs. (Data source: PEIMS
StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation Entity and StaffSectionAssociation Entity)

Auxiliary Staff (not on campus profile): The count of full-time equivalent (FTE) staff reported in PEIMS
employment and payroll records who are not reported in the PEIMS
StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation or StaffSectionAssociation Entities. The auxiliary staff
(and educational aide who performs routine classroom tasks under the general supervision of a certified
teacher or teaching team) are expressed as a percentage of total staff. For auxiliary staff, the FTE is the
value of the percentage of day worked. (Data source: PEIMS PayrollExt Entity and
StaffEducationOrganizationEmploymentAssociation Entity)
Librarians and Counselors (Headcount): The headcount of librarians and counselors is based on full-
time equivalent (FTE) for full-time and part-time headcounts. Librarians and counselors are considered
part-time when the FTE count is less than or equal to .85 (For example, if an FTE count is less than or
equal to .85, the part-time headcount is equal to 1). Counselor includes PEIMS Staff Classifications 008
and 117. Librarian includes PEIMS Staff Classifications 013.
Librarians and counselors are headcounts, not sums of FTEs. The district headcount is not a sum of the
campus headcount. For example, a counselor spends 50 percent of their time at the elementary (0.50
FTE) and 50 percent of their time at the high school (0.50 FTE). On each of the campus reports, this
counselor will be reflected as 1.0 part-time counselor. On the district report, the counselor will be
reflected as 1.0 full-time counselor since the FTE count is greater than .85 (0.50 FTE plus 0.50 FTE=1.0
FTE). See Appendix B for PEIMS Staff Classifications (Professional Support Staff). (Data source: PEIMS
Staff Entity, StaffEducationOrganizationEmploymentAssociation Entity,
StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation Entity, and StaffSectionAssociation Entity)

Total Minority Staff: The total count of minority staff is the sum of the FTE counts for all non-white staff
groups (African American, Hispanic, American Indian, Asian, Pacific Islander, and Two or More Races).
The minority staff FTE count is expressed as a percentage of the total staff FTE. (Data source: PEIMS
Staff Entity, StaffEducationOrganizationEmploymentAssociation Entity,
StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation Entity, and StaffSectionAssociation Entity)

Teachers by Ethnicity and Sex: The counts of teacher FTEs by ethnic group and by sex. Counts are also
expressed as a percentage of the total teacher FTEs. (Data source: PEIMS PEIMS Staff Entity,
StaffEducationOrganizationEmploymentAssociation Entity,
StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation Entity, and StaffSectionAssociation Entity)

Teachers by Highest Degree Held: The distribution of degrees held by teachers. The FTE counts of
teachers with no degree, a bachelor’s degree, a master’s degree, or a doctorate are expressed as a
percentage of the total teacher FTEs. (Data source: PEIMS Staff Entity,
StaffEducationOrganizationEmploymentAssociation Entity,
StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation Entity, and StaffSectionAssociation Entity)

Teachers by Years of Experience: The FTE count of teachers by total years of experience for the
individual, not necessarily years of experience in the district or campus. Teacher counts within each
range of experience are expressed as a percentage of total teacher FTEs. Teachers are reported with
zero years of experience (first year teachers), 1–5 years, 6–10 years, 11–20 years, 21–30 years, and over
30 years. (Data source: PEIMS PEIMS Staff Entity, StaffEducationOrganizationEmploymentAssociation


Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                     35 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
Entity, StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation Entity, and StaffSectionAssociation Entity)

Number of Students per Teacher: The total number of students divided by the total teacher FTE count.
(Data source: PEIMS Staff Entity, StaffEducationOrganizationEmploymentAssociation Entity,
StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation Entity, and StaffSectionAssociation Entity)

Experience of Campus Leadership: The average years of experience for principals and assistant
principals.
    Average Years as Principal: The number of completed years of experience as a principal, regardless
        of district or interruption in service. These amounts are added together and divided by the
        number of all principals reported for the campus.
    Average Years as Principal with District: The number of years a principal is employed in the district
        regardless of any interruption in service. The amounts are added together and divided by the
        number of principals reported for the district.
    Average Years as Assistant Principal: The number of completed years of experience as assistant
        principal, regardless of district or interruption of service. The amounts are added together and
        divided by the number of assistant principals reported for the campus.
    Average Years as Assistant Principal with District: The number of years employed as assistant
        principal in the district regardless of any interruption in service. These amounts are added
        together and divided by the number of assistant principals reported for the district.
    (Data source: PEIMS StaffEducationOrganizationEmploymentAssociation Entity)

Average Years Experience of Teachers: The average number of completed years of professional
experience, regardless of district. Weighted averages are calculated by multiplying each teacher’s FTE
coefficient (1 for a full-time teacher, .75 for a three-quarter-time teacher, and .5 for a half-time teacher,
for example) by his or her years of experience. These amounts are added together and divided by the
sum of all teachers’ FTE coefficients. (Data source: PEIMS PEIMS Staff Entity,
StaffEducationOrganizationEmploymentAssociation Entity,
StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation Entity, and StaffSectionAssociation Entity)

Average Years Experience of Teachers with District: The average number of years employed in the
district regardless of any interruption in service. Weighted averages are calculated by multiplying each
teacher’s FTE coefficient by his or her years of experience in the district. These amounts are added
together and divided by the sum of all teacher’s coefficients. (Data source: PEIMS
StaffEducationOrganizationEmploymentAssociation Entity)

Average Teacher Salary by Years of Experience (regular duties only): Total pay for all teachers in each
category divided by the total teacher FTE count in that category. For the purpose of this calculation, the
total actual salary amount is pay for regular duties only and does not include supplemental pay. For
teachers who also have non-teaching roles, only the portion of time and pay dedicated to classroom
responsibilities is factored into the average teacher salary calculation. Teachers are reported with zero
years of experience (first year teacher), 1–5 years, 6–10 years, 11–20 years, 21–30 years, and over 30
years. (Data source: PEIMS PayrollExt Entity)




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                      36 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
Average Actual Salaries (regular duties only): For each category, the total salary for that category
divided by the total FTE count for that category. Only payment for regular duties is included in the total
salary; supplemental payments for extra duties (e.g., coaching, band and orchestra assignments, club
sponsorships) are not included. See Appendix B for lists of the PEIMS staff classifications included in
each category.
  Teachers. Teachers, special duty teachers, and substitute teachers. Substitute teachers are either
     temporarily hired to replace a teacher or hired permanently on an as-needed basis. The District
     Teacher Salary Report and Graph also uses this definition in creating counts for various salary
     ranges.
  Professional Support. Therapists, nurses, librarians, counselors, and other campus professional
      personnel.
  Campus Administration (School Leadership). Principals, assistant principals, and other administrators
     reported with a specific school ID.
  Central Administration (not on campus profile). Superintendents, presidents, chief executive officers,
     chief administrative officers, business managers, athletic directors, and other administrators
     reported with a central office ID and not a specific school ID.

Instructional Staff Percent (district profile only): The percentage of the district's FTEs whose job function
was to provide classroom instruction directly to students during the 2024–25 school year. The
instructional staff percent is a district-level measure and is calculated as follows:

             total number of hours for district staff who were reported under expenditure
               object codes 6112, 6119, and 6129, and function codes 11, 12, 13, and 31
                         total number of hours worked by all district employees

Contact the Division of Financial Compliance at (512) 463-9095 for further details about this measure.
(Data source: PEIMS Staff Entity, StaffEducationOrganizationEmploymentAssociation Entity,
StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation Entity, and StaffSectionAssociation Entity)

Turnover Rate for Teachers (not on campus profile): The percentage of teachers from the fall of 2023–
24 who were not employed in the district in the fall of 2024–25. It is calculated as the total FTE count of
teachers from the fall of 2023–24 who were not employed in the district in the fall of 2024–25, divided
by the total teacher FTE count for the fall of 2023–24. Teachers include PEIMS Staff Classifications (Role
IDs) 087 and 047. Staff who remained employed in the district but not as teachers also count toward
teacher turnover. (Data source: PEIMS 2023-2024 PEIMS 30040 and 30090, 2024-2025 PEIMS Staff
Entity StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation Entity, and StaffSectionAssociation Entity)

Staff Exclusions (not on campus profile): The counts of individuals who serve public school students but
are not included in the FTE totals for any of the other employee statistics. There are two types of these
entries: individuals participating in a shared services arrangement and individuals on contract with the
district to provide instructional services.
Shared Services Arrangement (SSA) Staff are staff who work in schools located in districts other than
their employing district or whose assigned organization (in PEIMS) shows a code of 751, indicating that



Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                     37 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
they are employed by the fiscal agent of an SSA. Only the portion of a person’s total FTE amount
associated with the school in another district (or with the 751 organization code) is counted as SSA. SSA
staff are grouped into three categories: Professional Staff (which includes teachers, administrators, and
professional support); Educational Aides; and Auxiliary Staff. Note that SSA Auxiliary Staff are identified
by the type of fund from which they are paid.
Contracted Instructional Staff (District and Campus Profiles) refers to counts of instructors for whom the
district has entered into a contractual agreement with some outside organization. Through the contract,
the outside organization has committed to supplying instructional staff for the district. They are never
employees of the reporting school district. (Data source: PEIMS ContractedInstructionalStaffFTEExt
Entity and PayrollExt Entity)

Contracted Instructional Staff: The count of individuals who are not regular classroom teachers who
have signed a contract with a district, nor are they shared services arrangement employees. Rather,
these are instructors for whom the district has entered into a contractual agreement with an outside
organization. Through the contract, the outside organization has committed to supplying instructional
staff for the district. They include, but are not limited to, speech therapists, occupational therapists, and
any other professional contracted staff working in a classroom on a dedicated basis. (Data source: PEIMS
ContractedInstructionalStaffFTEExt Entity)

Teacher Incentive Allotment (TIA): The headcount of teachers who received incentive allotment per
House Bill 3 and TEC Sec. 48.112 and average TIA payout by categories of Recognized, Exemplary and
Master for the 2024-25 school year. (Data source: Division of District Talent Systems)

Teachers by Program (population served): The FTE count of teachers categorized by the type of student
populations served: regular, special, compensatory, bilingual/ESL, gifted and talented education
students, and other populations. Teacher FTE values are allocated across population types for teachers
who serve multiple population types. Percentages are expressed as a percentage of total teacher FTEs.
(Data source: PEIMS Staff Entity, StaffEducationOrganizationEmploymentAssociation Entity,
StaffEducationOrganizationAssignmentAssociation Entity, and StaffSectionAssociation Entity)




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                     38 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
                                    Appendix A
                             Advanced Academic Courses
• All courses shown were for the 2024–25 school year.
• An “A” prefix indicates a College Board Advanced Placement course.
• An “I” prefix indicates an International Baccalaureate course.
• Dual credit courses are not specifically shown on this list.
English Language Arts
 Course Code              Abbreviated Course Title
 03231900          ADV BROADCAST JOURNALISM I
 03231901          ADV BROADCAST JOURNALISM II
 03231902          ADV BROADCAST JOURNALISM III
 03230180          ADV JOURNALISM: LIT MAG II
 03230190          ADV JOURNALISM: LIT MAG III
 03230170          ADV JOURNALISM: LIT MAGAZINE I
 03230140          ADV JOURNALISM: NEWSPAPER I
 03230150          ADV JOURNALISM: NEWSPAPER II
 03230160          ADV JOURNALISM: NEWSPAPER III
 03230110          ADV JOURNALISM: YEARBOOK I
 03230120          ADV JOURNALISM: YEARBOOK II
 03230130          ADV JOURNALISM: YEARBOOK III
 A3220100          AP ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND COMP
 A3220200          AP ENGLISH LITERATURE AND COMP
 03240600          DEBATE I (DEBATE 1)
 03240700          DEBATE II (DEBATE 2)
 03240800          DEBATE III (DEBATE 3)
 I3220900          IB LITERATURE & PERF STD LEVEL
 I3220600          IB LNG A: LANG & LIT HIGH LEVL
 I3220500          IB LNG A: LANG & LIT STD LEVEL
 I3220800          IB LNG A: LITERATURE HIGH LEVL
 I3220700          IB LNG A: LITERATURE STD LEVEL
 I3366020          IB PHILOSOPHY HIGHER LEVEL
 I3366010          IB PHILOSOPHY STANDARD LEVEL
 03221800          INDEP STUDY/ENGLISH (1ST TIME)
 03231000          INDEP STUDY/JOURNALISM (1ST)
 03231011          INDEP STUDY/JOURNALISM (2ND)
 03231022          INDEP STUDY/JOURNALISM (3RD)
 03241200          INDEP STUDY/SPEECH (1ST TIME)
 03241210          INDEP STUDY/SPEECH (2ND TIME)
 03241220          INDEP STUDY/SPEECH (3RD TIME)
 03240200          ORAL INTERPRETATION I
 03240300          ORAL INTERPRETATION II


Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting   39 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
 Course Code             Abbreviated Course Title
 03240400          ORAL INTERPRETATION III
 03230800          PHOTOJOURNALISM (PHOTJOUR)
 03241100          PUBLIC SPEAKING III (PUBSPKG3)
 03221100          RESEARCH/TECHNICAL WRITING


Mathematics
 Course Code             Abbreviated Course Title
 03102510          ADVANCED QUANT REASONING
 A3100101          AP CALCULUS AB
 A3100102          AP CALCULUS BC
 A3100100          AP PRECALCULUS
 A3100200          AP STATISTICS (APSTATS)
 12701410          APPLIED MATH FOR TECH PROFNALS
 03102520          DISCRETE MATH FOR PRBLM SOLVNG
 I3100600          IB MATH ANALYS & APRCH HGH LVL
 I3100500          IB MATH ANALYS & APRCH STD LVL
 I3100800          IB MATH APPS & INTERPT HGH LVL
 I3100700          IB MATH APS & INTERPT STD LVL
 03102500          INDEP STUDY IN MATH (1ST TIME)
 03102501          INDEP STUDY IN MATH (2ND TIME)
 03102502          INDEP STUDY IN MATH (3RD TIME)
 IHE11100          MATH-INST OF HIGHER EDU ENDRSD
 03101100          PRECALCULUS (PRE CALC)

Science
 Course Code              Abbreviated Course Title
 A3010200          AP BIOLOGY
 A3040000          AP CHEMISTRY
 A3020000          AP ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE
 A3050003          AP PHYSICS 1: ALGEBRA BASED
 A3050004          AP PHYSICS 2: ALGEBRA BASED
 A3050005          AP PHYSICS C: ELECTR&MAGNETISM
 A3050006          AP PHYSICS C: MECHANICS
 I3010202          IB BIOLOGY HIGHER LEVEL
 I3010201          IB BIOLOGY STANDARD LEVEL
 I3040003          IB CHEMISTRY HIGHER LEVEL
 I3040002          IB CHEMISTRY STANDARD LEVEL
 I3030002          IB DESIGN TECHNOLOGY HIGHR LVL
 I3030001          IB DESIGN TECHNOLOGY STD LEVEL
 I3020000          IB ENVIRN SYS & SOC STND LEVL
 I3050003          IB PHYSICS HIGHER LEVEL
 I3050002          IB PHYSICS STANDARD LEVEL
 I3060002          IB SPRTS EXERS&HLTH SCI HGH LV
 I3060001          IB SPRTS EXERS&HLTH SCI ST LVL


Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting   40 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary

Social Studies
 Course Code               Abbreviated Course Title
 A3330200          AP COMPARATIVE GOVT & POLITICS
 A3340200          AP EUROPEAN HISTORY
 A3360200          AP HUMAN GEOGRAPHY (ELECTIVE)
 A3360100          AP HUMAN GEOGRAPHY (WRLD GEOG)
 A3220300          AP INTERNATIONAL ENGL LANGUAGE
 A3310200          AP MACROECONOMICS
 A3310100          AP MICROECONOMICS
 A3350100          AP PSYCHOLOGY
 A3330100          AP U.S. GOVERNMENT & POLITICS
 A3340100          AP UNITED STATES HISTORY
 A3370100          AP WORLD HISTORY
 03310301          ECONOMICS ADV STUDIES, 1ST TME
 03310321          ECONOMICS ADV STUDIES, 2ND TME
 I3303200          IB ECONOMICS HIGHER LEVEL
 I3303100          IB ECONOMICS STANDARD LEVEL
 I3302200          IB GEOGRAPHY HIGHER LEVEL
 I3302100          IB GEOGRAPHY STANDARD LEVEL
 I3302600          IB GLOBAL POLITICS HIGHER LVL
 I3302500          IB GLOBAL POLITICS STAND LEVEL
 I3301200          IB HIST AFRICA&MIDEAST HGHR LV
 I3301400          IB HIST ASIA&OCEANIA HIGHR LVL
 I3301300          IB HIST OF AMERICAS HIGHER LVL
 I3301500          IB HIST OF EUROPE HIGHER LEVEL
 I3301100          IB HISTORY STANDARD LEVEL
 I3304200          IB PSYCHOLOGY HIGHER LEVEL
 I3304100          IB PSYCHOLOGY STANDARD LEVEL
 I3302400          IB SOC & CULTRL ANTHRO HGH LVL
 I3302300          IB SOC & CULTRL ANTHRO STD LVL
 03380003          SOC STUD RESEARCH METH (1ST)
 03380023          SOC STUD RESEARCH METH (2ND)
 03380033          SOC STUD RESEARCH METH (3RD)
 03380043          SOC STUD RESEARCH METH (4TH)
 03380031          SOC STUDIES ADV STUDY-3RD TIME
 03380041          SOC STUDIES ADV STUDY-4TH TIME
 03380001          SOCIAL STD ADV STDYS (1ST TME)
 03380021          SOCIAL STD ADV STDYS (2ND TME)




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting   41 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
Foreign Language
 Course Code              Abbreviated Course Title
 03980910          AMER SIGN LNG ADV STD 1ST TIME
 03980920          AMER SIGN LNG ADV STD 2ND TIME
 03980930          AMER SIGN LNG ADV STD 3RD TIME
 A3400400          AP LANG & CULTURE - ITALIAN
 A3120400          AP LANG & CULTURE - JAPANESE
 A3440100          AP LANG & CULTURE - SPANISH
 A3410100          AP LANGUAGE & CULTURE - FRENCH
 A3420100          AP LANGUAGE & CULTURE - GERMAN
 A3490400          AP LANGUAGE &CULTURE - CHINESE
 A3430100          AP LATIN
 A3440200          AP LITER & CULTURE - SPANISH
 03430910          CLS LNG SEM, ADV 1ST TME LATIN
 03430920          CLS LNG SEM, ADV 2ND TME LATIN
 03430930          CLS LNG SEM, ADV 3RD TME LATIN
 I3520500          IB LANG B MODERN LANG HL-HINDI
 I3520400          IB LANG B MODERN LANG SL-HINDI
 I3996100          IB LANG B, MODRN LANG HL OTHER
 I3996000          IB LANG B, MODRN LANG SL OTHER
 I3110300          IB LANGUAGE AB INITIO STD LEVL
 I3430500          IB LNG B CLASSIC LANG HL-LATIN
 I3430400          IB LNG B CLASSIC LANG SL-LATIN
 I3410500          IB LNG B MODERN LANG HL-FRENCH
 I3420500          IB LNG B MODERN LANG HL-GERMAN
 I3480500          IB LNG B MODERN LANG HL-HEBREW
 I3410400          IB LNG B MODERN LANG SL-FRENCH
 I3420400          IB LNG B MODERN LANG SL-GERMAN
 I3480400          IB LNG B MODERN LANG SL-HEBREW
 I3110500          IB LNG B MODRN LANG HL- ARABIC
 I3490500          IB LNG B MODRN LANG HL-CHINESE
 I3450500          IB LNG B MODRN LANG HL-RUSSIAN
 I3440500          IB LNG B MODRN LANG HL-SPANISH
 I3110400          IB LNG B MODRN LANG SL- ARABIC
 I3490400          IB LNG B MODRN LANG SL-CHINESE
 I3450400          IB LNG B MODRN LANG SL-RUSSIAN
 I3440400          IB LNG B MODRN LANG SL-SPANISH
 I3120500          IB LNG B MODRN LNG HL-JAPANESE
 I3120400          IB LNG B MODRN LNG SL-JAPANESE
 03110300          LANG O/T ENGLISH III - ARABIC
 03420300          LANG O/T ENGLISH III - GERMAN
 03980300          LANG O/T ENGLISH III - ASL
 03490300          LANG O/T ENGLISH III - CHINESE
 03410300          LANG O/T ENGLISH III - FRENCH
 03450300          LANG O/T ENGLISH III - RUSSIAN
 03440300          LANG O/T ENGLISH III - SPANISH


Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting   42 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
 Course Code             Abbreviated Course Title
 03400300          LANG O/T ENGLISH III- ITALIAN
 03120300          LANG O/T ENGLISH III- JAPANESE
 03470300          LANG O/T ENGLISH III PORTUGUES
 03110400          LANG O/T ENGLISH IV - ARABIC
 03980400          LANG O/T ENGLISH IV - ASL
 03490400          LANG O/T ENGLISH IV - CHINESE
 03410400          LANG O/T ENGLISH IV - FRENCH
 03420400          LANG O/T ENGLISH IV - GERMAN
 03400400          LANG O/T ENGLISH IV - ITALIAN
 03120400          LANG O/T ENGLISH IV - JAPANESE
 03450400          LANG O/T ENGLISH IV - RUSSIAN
 03440400          LANG O/T ENGLISH IV - SPANISH
 03470400          LANG O/T ENGLISH IV PORTUGUESE
 03110500          LANG O/T ENGLISH V - ARABIC
 03490500          LANG O/T ENGLISH V - CHINESE
 03410500          LANG O/T ENGLISH V - FRENCH
 03420500          LANG O/T ENGLISH V - GERMAN
 03400500          LANG O/T ENGLISH V - ITALIAN
 03450500          LANG O/T ENGLISH V - RUSSIAN
 03440500          LANG O/T ENGLISH V - SPANISH
 03470500          LANG O/T ENGLISH V PORTUGUESE
 03110600          LANG O/T ENGLISH VI - ARABIC
 03490600          LANG O/T ENGLISH VI - CHINESE
 03410600          LANG O/T ENGLISH VI - FRENCH
 03420600          LANG O/T ENGLISH VI - GERMAN
 03400600          LANG O/T ENGLISH VI - ITALIAN
 03120600          LANG O/T ENGLISH VI - JAPANESE
 03450600          LANG O/T ENGLISH VI - RUSSIAN
 03440600          LANG O/T ENGLISH VI - SPANISH
 03470600          LANG O/T ENGLISH VI PORTUGUESE
 03410700          LANG O/T ENGLISH VII - FRENCH
 03420700          LANG O/T ENGLISH VII - GERMAN
 03440700          LANG O/T ENGLISH VII - SPANISH
 03110700          LANG O/T ENGLISH VII-ARABIC
 03490700          LANG O/T ENGLISH VII-CHINESE
 03400700          LANG O/T ENGLISH VII-ITALIAN
 03120700          LANG O/T ENGLISH VII-JAPANESE
 03470700          LANG O/T ENGLISH VII-PORTUGUES
 03450700          LANG O/T ENGLISH VII-RUSSIAN
 03120500          LANG O/T ENGLISH V-JAPANESE
 11403100          LANG OTH ENG/LVLIII/KOR
 11401300          LANG OTH ENG/LVLIII/TURK
 11403200          LANG OTH ENG/LVLIV/KOR
 11401400          LANG OTH ENG/LVLIV/TURK
 11403300          LANG OTH ENG/LVLV/KOR


Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting   43 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
 Course Code              Abbreviated Course Title
 11401500          LANG OTH ENG/LVLV/TURK
 11403400          LANG OTH ENG/LVLVI/KOR
 11401600          LANG OTH ENG/LVLVI/TURK
 11403500          LANG OTH ENG/LVLVII/KOR
 11401700          LANG OTH ENG/LVLVII/TURK
 03520300          LANG OTH THN ENG LVL III HINDI
 03520700          LANG OTH THN ENG LVL VII HINDI
 03520500          LANG OTHR THAN ENG LVL V HINDI
 03520400          LANG OTHR THN ENG LVL IV HINDI
 03520600          LANG OTHR THN ENG LVL VI HINDI
 03510300          LNG OTH THN EN LVL III VIETNAM
 03510700          LNG OTH THN EN LVL VII VIETNAM
 03510400          LNG OTH THN ENG LVL IV VIETNAM
 03510500          LNG OTH THN ENG LVL V VIETNAM
 03510600          LNG OTH THN ENG LVL VI VIETNAM
 03530300          LOE, LEVEL III - URDU
 03530400          LOE, LEVEL IV - URDU
 03530500          LOE, LEVEL V - URDU
 03530600          LOE, LEVEL VI - URDU
 03530700          LOE, LEVEL VII - URDU
 03430300          LOTE CLASSIC LNG LVL III LATIN
 03430700          LOTE CLASSIC LNG LVL VII LATIN
 03430400          LOTE CLASSIC LNG, LVL IV LATIN
 03430500          LOTE CLASSIC LNG, LVL V LATIN
 03430600          LOTE CLASSIC LNG, LVL VI LATIN
 03993400          OTHER FOREIGN LANG LEVEL III
 03996000          OTHER FOREIGN LANGUAGES IV
 03996100          OTHER FOREIGN LANGUAGES V
 03996200          OTHER FOREIGN LANGUAGES VI
 03996300          OTHER FOREIGN LANGUAGES VII
 03110910          SEM LOT, ADV 1ST TIME, ARABIC
 03490910          SEM LOT, ADV 1ST TIME, CHINESE
 03410910          SEM LOT, ADV 1ST TIME, FRENCH
 03420910          SEM LOT, ADV 1ST TIME, GERMAN
 03520910          SEM LOT, ADV 1ST TIME, HINDI
 03400910          SEM LOT, ADV 1ST TIME, ITALIAN
 11403610          SEM LOT, ADV 1ST TIME, KOREAN
 03470910          SEM LOT, ADV 1ST TIME, PORTUGE
 03450910          SEM LOT, ADV 1ST TIME, RUSSIAN
 03440910          SEM LOT, ADV 1ST TIME, SPANISH
 11401910          SEM LOT, ADV 1ST TIME, TURKISH
 03530910          SEM LOT, ADV 1ST TIME, URDU
 03510910          SEM LOT, ADV 1ST TIME, VIETNAM
 03120910          SEM LOT, ADV 1ST TME, JAPANESE
 03110920          SEM LOT, ADV 2ND TIME, ARABIC


Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting   44 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
 Course Code             Abbreviated Course Title
 03490920          SEM LOT, ADV 2ND TIME, CHINESE
 03410920          SEM LOT, ADV 2ND TIME, FRENCH
 03420920          SEM LOT, ADV 2ND TIME, GERMAN
 03520920          SEM LOT, ADV 2ND TIME, HINDI
 03400920          SEM LOT, ADV 2ND TIME, ITALIAN
 11403620          SEM LOT, ADV 2ND TIME, KOREAN
 03470920          SEM LOT, ADV 2ND TIME, PORTUGE
 03450920          SEM LOT, ADV 2ND TIME, RUSSIAN
 03440920          SEM LOT, ADV 2ND TIME, SPANISH
 11401920          SEM LOT, ADV 2ND TIME, TURKISH
 03530920          SEM LOT, ADV 2ND TIME, URDU
 03510920          SEM LOT, ADV 2ND TIME, VIETNAM
 03120920          SEM LOT, ADV 2ND TME, JAPANESE
 03110930          SEM LOT, ADV 3RD TIME, ARABIC
 03490930          SEM LOT, ADV 3RD TIME, CHINESE
 03410930          SEM LOT, ADV 3RD TIME, FRENCH
 03420930          SEM LOT, ADV 3RD TIME, GERMAN
 03520930          SEM LOT, ADV 3RD TIME, HINDI
 03400930          SEM LOT, ADV 3RD TIME, ITALIAN
 11403630          SEM LOT, ADV 3RD TIME, KOREAN
 03470930          SEM LOT, ADV 3RD TIME, PORTUGE
 03450930          SEM LOT, ADV 3RD TIME, RUSSIAN
 03440930          SEM LOT, ADV 3RD TIME, SPANISH
 03530930          SEM LOT, ADV 3RD TIME, URDU
 03510930          SEM LOT, ADV 3RD TIME, VIETNAM
 03120930          SEM LOT, ADV 3RD TME, JAPANESE
 11401930          SEM LOT, ADV 3TD TIME, TURKISH
 03440330          SPANISH FOR SPAN SPEAKERS LVL3
 03440440          SPANISH FOR SPAN SPEAKERS LVL4




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting   45 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
                                                  Appendix B
                                            PEIMS Staff Classifications
                                                     (In Alphabetical Order by Label)
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATORS
          004.....................................................................Assistant/Associate/Deputy Superintendent
          027.....................................................................Superintendent/CAO/CEO/President
          061.....................................................................Asst/Assoc/Deputy Exec Director
          062.....................................................................Component/Department Director
          063.....................................................................Coordinator/Manager/Supervisor
CAMPUS ADMINISTRATORS
          003.....................................................................Assistant Principal
          020.....................................................................Principal
EITHER CENTRAL OR CAMPUS ADMINISTRATORS*
          012.....................................................................Instructional Officer
          028.....................................................................Teacher Supervisor
          040.....................................................................Athletic Director
          043.....................................................................Business Manager
          044.....................................................................Tax Assessor and/or Collector
          045.....................................................................Director - Personnel/Human Resources
          055.....................................................................Registrar
          060.....................................................................Executive Director
          120………………………………………………………………… Instructional Coach
PROFESSIONAL SUPPORT STAFF
          002 ....................................................................Art Therapist
          005 ....................................................................Psychological Associate
          006.....................................................................Audiologist
          007.....................................................................Corrective Therapist
          008.....................................................................Counselor
          011 ....................................................................Educational Diagnostician
          013.....................................................................Librarian
          015.....................................................................Music Therapist
          016.....................................................................Occupational Therapist
          017.....................................................................Certified Orientation & Mobility Specialist
          018.....................................................................Physical Therapist
          019 ....................................................................Physician
          021.....................................................................Recreational Therapist
          022.....................................................................School Nurse
          023.....................................................................LSSP/Psychologist
          024.....................................................................Social Worker
          026.....................................................................Speech Therapist/Speech-Lang Pathologist
          030.....................................................................Visiting Teacher/Truant Officer
          032.....................................................................Work-Based Learning Site Coordinator
          041.....................................................................Teacher Facilitator
          042.....................................................................Teacher Appraiser
          054.....................................................................Department Head
          056.....................................................................Athletic Trainer
          058.....................................................................Other Campus Professional Personnel



Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                                                46 of 47
2024–25 Texas Academic Performance Report
(TAPR) Glossary
            064.....................................................................Specialist/Consultant
            065.....................................................................Field Service Agent
            079.....................................................................Other ESC Professional Personnel
            080.....................................................................Other Non-Campus Professional Personnel
            100..................................................................... Instructional Materials Coordinator
            101..................................................................... Legal Services
            102 ....................................................................Communications Professional
            103 ....................................................................Research/Evaluation Professional
            104 ....................................................................Internal Auditor
            105 ....................................................................Security
            106 ....................................................................District/Campus Information Technology Professional
            107 ....................................................................Food Service Professional
            108 ....................................................................Transportation
            109 ....................................................................Athletics
            110 ....................................................................Custodial
            111 ....................................................................Maintenance
            112 ....................................................................Business Services Professional
            113 ....................................................................Other District Exempt Professional Auxiliary
            114 ....................................................................Other Campus Exempt Professional Auxiliary
            115………………………………………………………………….Psychiatric Nurse
            116………………………………………………………………….Licensed Clinical Social Worker
            117………………………………………………………………….Licensed Professional Counselor
            118………………………………………………………………….Licensed Marriage & Family Therapist
            119………………………………………………………………….Family and Community Liaison
            121………………………………………………………………….Chaplain
TEACHERS
          087.....................................................................Teacher
          047.....................................................................Substitute Teacher
EDUCATIONAL AIDES
          033.....................................................................Educational Aide
          036.....................................................................Certified Interpreter
AUXILIARY STAFF
          Employment record, but no responsibility records.
* Administrators reported with these roles are categorized as central office or campus, depending on the organization ID reported for them.




Texas Education Agency | Analytics, Assessment, Reporting| Performance Reporting                                                          47 of 47
