2
& ‘en
@ ! — gi
- - 3 ai as 4
er —_— _— 3
< ee \ ‘8 i, | y
1. p= | -
§ [ | |
/ y I 3
HISD 2025-2026 Key Action Plan
Our nation’s persistent achievement gap reflects ongoing struggles with low proficiency in
reading and math that both create and perpetuate systemic inequities. Education experts widely
agree that our public education system requires substantial overhaul. Despite receiving federal
ESSER funding intended for transformative change post-COVID-19, many districts, including
HISD, retained outdated practices without meaningful improvements.
In response to these conditions and associated with the state intervention, HISD Superintendent
Mike Miles and his new administration initiated “Destination 2035,” a blueprint for turning the
District around and preparing students for a fundamentally different world and workplace. HISD
has now successfully implemented wholesale, systemic reform in 85 New Education System
(NES) schools. This initiative has shown promising results, fostering a high-performance culture
and implementing systemic improvements across instructional quality, evaluation systems,
special needs support, and leadership development.
HISD will stay the course and improve upon what has begun in this next school year. The Key
Actions outlined below align with the Destination 2035 plan and expand on the foundational
work that has been done this past year.
Key Actions

1) Improve the quality of instruction
Improving the quality of instruction must be the core work of any district. We have overhauled
the components of the instructional system and have tied the various parts together in a way that
has and will continue to dramatically improve student outcomes. Still, there is much work to do
to improve the quality of instruction in a large urban district that previously had 274 autonomous
schools, few of which were focused on improving instruction.
We will strengthen the systems we put in place over the last year and a half and improve the
implementation of these instructional strategies. We will dedicate time and resources to align all
Executive Directors of Instruction (EDIs), Principals, and the district-level trainers and coaches
on our expectations for instruction in every classroom every day. Each school's quality of
instruction will be assessed by an independent review of the instructional quality -- known as IRT
visits. These visits occur four times per year. Additionally, HISD currently serves 69K Emergent
Bilingual students, so the district will increase its focus on achieving English Proficiency for this
student group.

2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary 5
