2) Implement a new teacher evaluation and compensation system
HISD currently administers a rigorous T-TESS evaluation system for all teachers in the
District. The T-TESS evaluation is tied to student achievement outcomes and the quality of
instruction.
When the District of Innovation plan was created by the District Advisory Committee and
approved by the Board of Managers in December 2023, it allowed for the District to develop a
new evaluation system for teachers during the 2024-2025 school year. A new evaluation
system - the Teacher Excellence System (TES) — will be brought to the Board for possible
approval in March 2025. Should the Board pass the new evaluation system, the District will
implement it in the 2025-2026 school year and tie compensation to the evaluation ratings
beginning in the 2026-2027 school year.
3) Improve SPED instruction, service delivery, and outcomes
HISD has significantly improved special education compliance since the start of the
intervention. Many more students have been identified early, and 99.9% of ARD meetings
have been conducted on time. We also improved special education achievement. However,
we have much work to do in the area of instruction and rigor. In the 2025-2026 school year,
we will continue to improve SPED compliance and place more emphasis on improving the
quality of instruction for students receiving special education services.
4) Expand HISD’s Pre-K3 and Pre-K4 programs
BIE u Over time, if we are to improve reading proficiency in
a » elementary and middle school, we will have to grow the
of | | ; a \\\ number of Pre-K seats and improve the quality of
[aE £ LA Eee instruction in preschool. High-quality Pre-K programs
X IN \ 3 X- EY “TN require adequate facilities, effective teachers, and a
J RB |G “Na robust curriculum with high-quality instructional
SDAA A 2 ) materials.
aaa Our efforts to significantly increase the number of Pre-K
available seats, especially in the highest demand areas, have been slowed by the failure to
pass a bond. Still, in the 2025-2026 school year, we will expand the number of Pre-K seats
and work to improve the quality of instruction in preschool. Where possible, we will prioritize
the underserved areas of the District that lack access to high-quality preschool seats.
5) Improve Districtwide systems and efficiency
As outlined in the Efficiency Report of February 2024, numerous systems that support the
schools and our core function of improving student outcomes are dysfunctional or broken.
Last year, we started to improve these systems but had to focus on right-sizing central office
and eliminating wasteful spending, especially on purchased services that we employ people
to do. We also had to change the culture of central office staff to focus on supporting
schools and holding ourselves accountable for specific goals and metrics.
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary 6
