We will continue to improve each department’s support of the schools and the broader
District goals. However, for the 2025-2026 school year, we will prioritize improving three
systems: 1) transportation of students, 2) data integration and accuracy, and 3) the unit
concept.

6) Provide Accurate, Timely Information to the HISD Community
Over the last decade, the media environment has drastically changed. The viralness of
information — especially misinformation — has grown exponentially. Also, people seem to be
more willing to believe almost anything that supports their point of view regardless of the
facts. Our efforts to persuade and inform in this type of media environment have suffered
from the immediacy of misinformation and entertaining social content.

7) Expand access to high-quality post-secondary pathways
Historical HISD data shows the majority of HISD students are not graduating equipped for
success in college or career. Only 14% of student are graduating from college and only 12%
of students are completing a coherent sequence of CTE courses and obtaining an IBC, and
indication of career readiness. Additionally, 57% of HISD graduates who enroll in college are
required to take remedial coursework in math and reading which we know significantly
increases the chances of college drop out.
In the last year and a half, the District has taken big steps to improve both college and career
pathways for students in alignment with high-wage, high-demand jobs. This work starts early
with a focus on improving student outcomes in all grades through high quality, Tier 1
instruction. This is critical to success given multiple research studies show that
understanding key math concepts is predictive of success. For example, completion of
Algebra | by 9" grade is highly predictive of high school graduation, success and college and
higher earnings. Also, students' understanding of fractions and division in earlier grades is a
strong predictor of their algebra knowledge and success in high school. The district has been
rapidly growing students’ foundational learning and expanding access to advanced
pathways. Additionally, the District has prioritized investment in four Programs of Study so
more students have access to programs that lead to high-wage, high-demand jobs.
Still, there is much more to do to transform CTE pathways and college success to prepare
students for a different workplace and world. We must continue to expand our advanced
math pathways for students in middle school, improve TSI readiness in high school and
improve college acceptance and matriculation rates. We also need to continue to provide
upgraded programs of study and courses that help students learn how to use artificial
intelligence to enhance their skills. A quick analysis conducted last year revealed large
inequities in access to programs of study and pathways that are more rigorous and that will
lead to higher-skilled careers. We need to change our operations to address these inequities
and provide all students access to “future-oriented” programs of study.
The failure of the bond makes it harder for us to prepare our students for a different world and
workplace. Nevertheless, we will invest as much as we can in upgrading our courses and
programs of study. We plan to invest heavily in Barbara Jordan CTE Center and expand
access to the center for students whose high schools do not have strong programs of study
focused on high skill, high wage, and high demand jobs.

2025-2026 Adopted Budget Exective Summary 7
