Chief of Academics
Department Description
The Academics Department manages curriculum, programs, and teacher support, ensuring high-quality instruction
aligned with Texas standards (TEKS) for PreK-12. It supports school leaders, designs learning experiences, and oversees
assessments to prepare all students for college and careers.
Key Action 1 - Improve quality of instruction through quality curriculum and digital resources, and provide targetd
support in the areas of Pre-K and English Proficiency for Emergent Bilingual students.
Indicators of Success
o Curriculum - By June 2026, 95% of deliverables are published 4 weeks in advance of delivery of instruction and 100%
are published 2 weeks in advance on HISD platform and external facing platform.
o Curriculum - By June 2026, 60% of K-10 reading and math embedded videos will have at least 50% of teachers on
campuses using HISD Curriculum who are assigned to the course watch at least 1 video per week.
Digital Resources - By June 2026, there will be a 10% increase in the number of students who meet usage target for
® Zearn and Boost and 40% increase in the number of students who meet usage target in Amira as compared to SY24-
25.
Dual Language - By June 2026, there will be a 10% increase in the percent of dual language campuses that reach the
® TEA defined target for percent of 1st — 5th grade EB students that grow one level of proficiency on the Reading
and/or Speaking domain in TELPAS compared to their prior year TELPAS score.
o Pre-K Quality Instruction - By May 2026, there will be a 5% increase in the number of Pre-K students who meet their
target growth goal from BOY to EQY as compared to SY24-25.
Specific Actions
n Finalize and approve finalized continuous improvement efforts with Miles and Massey, complete and publish
curriculum maps, train on monitoring systems and vetting for full team.
2 Design and layout internal and external publshing systems for lessons and embedded videos, finalize feedback loops
for errors and rollout of new information, train design and production teams on publishing processes.
3 Ongoing weekly, review processes (braintrust) conducted for content alignment and feedback from teachers,
leaders, and other stake holders.
4 Prepare and deliver monthly professional development opportunities for content and grade specific unit
internalization.
5 Set clear usage targets and train critical users ahead of Day 1 of School
6 Prioritize supporting systems during first month of insstruction to ensure all schools are on-track to hit usage
targets.
7 Integrate dual languge checks into spot and IRT protocols (test in cycle 6). Support teams with implementation
needs.
8 Integrate K-12 Summit English Proficiency digital resource in RLA LSAE and monitor fidelity of implementation
9 Create DL implementation monitoring system within IRT
10 Train EB teachers on staff PD days and leaders on principal/ED days
11 Train Pre-K teachers on staff PD days and leaders on principal/ED days
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section 144
