Chief of Academics
Track post-secondary pathway plan and verification of evidence via SchoolLinks. Evidence includes:
College Pathway: Acceptance Letter or Financial Aid Notice
Military Pathway: Confirmation of Application to Military Branch OR Military Enlistment Document OR Military
19 Academy Appointment Letter
Employment Pathway: Employment offer letter or confirmation of continuation of employment
Job Training Programs Pathway: Acceptance Letter OR Offer Letter OR Confirmation of Application
Apprenticeship Pathway: Acceptance Letter OR Offer Letter OR Confirmation of Application
Service or Gap Year Pathway: Acceptance Letter OR Offer Letter OR Confirmation of Application
Key Action 5 - Build strong internal office systems focused on data analysis and reporting, leadership capacity building,
Indicators of Success
o By 1 January 2026, OOA will be able to acquire accurate, updated data or answers to OOA-specific items on the list
of 400 recurring or important queries within an hour of a request from a Cabinet member.
. By June 2026, 100% of data reports produced by the OOA are 100% accurate when they are released to Mr. Miles,
division leadership or shared with public.
® By June 2026, 88% of OOA Directors and above will score 3 or higher on their EOY review.
By June 2026, 86% of Office of Academics staff will agree or strongly agree with the indicator: “The Office of
® Academics leadership effectively communicates important information to Academics employees” on the cumulative
EQY Pulse Survey.
By June 2026, 85% of Office of Academics staff will agree or strongly agree with the indicator: “The Office of
® Academics leadership effectively communicates important information to campus, division, and public
stakeholders” on the cumulative EOY Pulse Survey.
Specific Actions
1 Allocate business owners and align on business rules for the academics portion of the district 400 target queries
(200 to be done by June).
2 Build out code to allow for quick pulls of 400 queries (200 to be done by August).
3 Every data team builds quality control check procedures to ensure error-free end products.
a All public reports are placed on timeline with clear owners so they are developed, reviewed, vetted and approved
by appropriate staff before going public.
5 Write new professional competency rubric for NTAS (e.g., central office employee evaluation)
6 Continue to operation Academics University to deploy training to support leadership capacity develoment
7 Issue Academics pulse survey three times per year.
3 Test and iterate on communication systems and processes that get the right information to the right team member
at the right time.
9 Launch new internal Office of Academics Resource site to provide staff with access to critical office information.
10 Work with coms to redesign Academics portions of HISD website
11 Conduct monthly strategic planning step-backs with coms to support content for HISD Now.
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section 148
