Chief of Organizational Effectiveness
Department Description
The Department of Organizational Effectiveness focuses on making the central office and district
operations more efficient and effective, particularly by improving student transportation, analyzing data
for better decisions, and streamlining processes to support district goals.
Key Action 1 - Improve SPED instruction, service delivery, and outcomes.
Indicators of Success

o The percentage of 4th-8th grade students with disabilities that have met expected growth from BOY
to EOY on NWEA Map in reading will increase from Xin May 2025 to X May 2026
The percentage of “instructionally proficient” IEPs as measured by a rubric and as reviewed by an

® independent team from the Special Education Department will increase from XX% in May 2025 to
XX% in May 2026

o The District's average mid-year IRT score of at least 200 SPED teachers exceeds 10.0; EOY score
exceeds 11.5
Houston ISD will maintain or improve performance levels on Valid, Reliable, and Timely Data, SPP

® Compliance indicators, and Status of Uncorrected Noncompliance as measured by the 2024 RDA
district report.

Specific Actions

1 Develop and provide professional development and follow support based on folder review results.

2 Ensure areas of growth identified in folder review processes are corrected.

3 Conduct SPED teacher professional development on high-quality instruction as outlined in HISD’s key
instructional characteristics and the spot observation

a Train instructional review teams for the Special Education Department and select members of the
IRT teams to conduct spot observations of SPED teachers

5 Redesign the curent continuum of services to effectively meet the diverse needs of students with
disabilities.

6 Monitor SPP compliance indicators through weekly/monthly compliance reports.

7 Meet with Accountability and Compliance Department to review and analyze SPP indicator data
prior to submission of TSDS data through PEIMS data portal.

OSES will submit SPP 11 and 12 data to HISD Federal and State Compliance on a quarterly basis.

3 Following each submission, quarterly meetings will be held to review SPP 11 and 12 data.
Additionally, supporting documentation for evaluation delays will be collected monthly for
submission to the TEA during the clarification period.

Key Action 2 - Improve districtwide systems and efficiency in transportation and fleet.
Indicators of Success

o By 1 November 2025, the cost of transporting a student in HISD will be less than $4,000 per student
(down from over $6,000 per student)

2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section 156
