Chief of Information Technology
® Select, Fund, Procure Web Content Filtering solution for 80% of staff and student devices.
o Select, Fund, Procure Priveleged Access Management (PAM) solution for 50% reduction of accounts
with elevated access rights (50 to 25) to infrastructure systems.
Specific Actions
Preparation, planning and Secure funding to select a Security Information and Event Management
1 (SIEM) solution to facilitate the collection and correlation of events and logs across all infrastructure
systems.
2 Design and implement the Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) solution.
3 Preparation, planning and Secure funding to select a Privileged Access Management (PAM) solution to
manage secure access to critical systems and prevent unauthorized access.
4 Design and implement the Privileged Access Management (PAM) solution.
5 Preparation, planning and Secure funding to select a Network Detection and Response (NDR) solution to
enhance visibility and automate responses to mitigate threats.
6 Design and implement the Network Detection and Response (NDR) solution.
7 Preparation, planning and Secure funding to select a Vulnerability Management solution to identify risks
and automate remediation.
8 Design and implement the Vulnerability Management solution.
9 Preparation, planning and Secure funding to select a Content filtering system and select a vendor to
maintain CIPA compliance and protects staff and students from inapropriate content and maleware.
10 Design and implement the Content Filtering solution.
Key Action 5 - Successfully implement processes and procedures to support the adapted concept of the IT
Indicators of Success
By August 2025, IT will update the Technology Device Management Guide to support the IT roles and
functions to match the current IT Division Unit Concept. Quarterly updates to be completed.
Beginning July 2025, IT will conduct a minimum of six hands-on training sessions for campus IT contacts
on relevant campus based IT support topics.
® By June 30, 2026 IT will have held a minimum of six monthly support meetings for IT campus Contacts.
® Cut IT Division Staff by 32 FTE's in support of newly adapted support concept.
Specific Actions
1 Initial Update for the Technology Device Management Guide with reflecting new IT Division Support
model roles and functions by August 1.
2 Quartely Update of the Technology Device Management Guide with identified updates for campus use.
3 Creation of Training Guide and Scheduling of at least 6 "hands-on training opportunities for campus
contacts leveraging Job-A-Like and district scheduled PD days.
a Create meeting guideline and schedule IT support training and process review meetings for campus
designated IT contacts.
5 Consult with HR for RIF processes and procedures and notify FTE's.
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section 161
