Chief of Facilities, Maintenance & Operations
Department Description
The Facilities, Maintenance, & Operations department handles all things related to school buildings and
grounds, ensuring they are safe, functional, and well-maintained through services like repairs, cleaning,
construction, groundskeeping, and managing essential systems and compliance with regulations,
essentially making sure campuses run smoothly for students and staff.
Key Action 1 - Address $40M of Immediate HVAC and Roofing Repairs at High Impact Schools
Indicators of Success
. 100% of priority schools identified in the first phase of the plan (based on the most critical HVAC
issues) have HVAC upgrades or replacements completed on time.
® Keep the HVAC project budget on track with a variance of no more than 20%.
® Reduction in the number of HVAC and roofing-related work orders post-repair.
. 100% of HVAC technicians and 90% of building services managers complete specialized training on
HVAC and DDC system operations and troubleshooting within 6 months.
® Improved air quality and temperature regulation in affected schools.
. 100% of priority roofs identified in the first phase of the plan (based on the most critical roof issues)
have roof replacements completed on time
Specific Actions
1 Finalize a prioritized list of schools based on urgency and impact to ensure the most critical repairs
are completed first.
2 Solicit and engage qualified contractors to bid on and execute HVAC and roofing
replacements/repairs.
3 Conduct regular progress monitoring of repairs and implement corrective actions to minimize
delays.
a Conduct post-construction inspections to verify that all HVAC and roofing systems are operating as
intended.
Key Action 2 - Enhance Work Order Management and Emergency Response
Indicators of Success
. Reduction in the average response time for emergency and urgent work orders. (Emergency issues
are addressed and stabilized within 2 hours.)
® Improved work order closure rates (timeliness and completion).
o Increased satisfaction from school administrators and staff regarding response times and issue
resolution.
® Higher work order prioritization accuracy (emergency, urgent, compliance, routine, or project).
Specific Actions
1 Emergency work orders are assigned and dispatched immediately.
2025-2026 Adopted Budget Informational Section 165
